2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 01 Dec 2020

                     As of 1 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed and verified that there are 2 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. Of these, 1 is in the community, and 1
resides in a dormitory. There are 8 imported cases, who had already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 9 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

BREAKDOWN BY

BREAKDOWN BY

NUMBER OF CASES

ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE

SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1

0

1

0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1

0

1

0

1

IMPORTED CASES

8

8

0

1

7

TOTAL

10

2.          Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained low, with a total of 5 cases in the past week who are currently
unlinked. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58431 is a Singaporean who works as a cleaner at the transit area at
Changi Airport Terminal 3. She is asymptomatic, and was detected through
our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) of workers at the
frontlines of COVID-19 operations.

She was conveyed to the hospital when her test came back positive for
COVID-19 infection. Her serological test result is negative, which
indicates a likely current infection.

She stays at Yishun Ring Road with her husband who is currently
unemployed. At work, she dons personal protective equipment, including a
face mask, face shield, gloves and gown. Her earlier swabs done as part
of RRT were all negative.

Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the case, including her family members and
co-workers, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be
tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that we can
detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for
the close contacts to determine if the case could have been infected by
them.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today. Case 58434 is
asymptomatic, and was detected through our proactive surveillance. He
was conveyed to the hospital when his swab result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection, and all his close contacts at the dormitory and his
workplace have been isolated and placed on quarantine.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 8

Amongst the 8 imported cases, 6 are currently employed in Singapore. Of
these, 1 (Case 58430) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from Japan and 5
(Cases 58435, 58436, 58437, 58438 and 58439) are Work Permit holders who
arrived from Indonesia and Myanmar. Another case (Case 58433) is a
Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from Russia. They had already
been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were tested while
serving SHN.

The remaining case (Case 58432) is a Special Pass holder who entered
Singapore from Indonesia, and was arrested by the Singapore Police
Force’s Police Coast Guard for his suspected involvement in a prior
case. He was tested for COVID-19 infection, and isolated until he was
conveyed to the hospital when his result came back positive.

3.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

4.  5 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,139 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

5.  There are currently 29 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 31 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.




