Five More Cases Discharged; Four New Cases of COVID-19 Infection
Confirmed

Five More Cases Discharged; Four New Cases of COVID-19 Infection Confirmed
==========================================================================

Published Date: 18 Feb 2020

           Five more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospital today (Cases 5, 8, 21, 38 and 76). In all, 29 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital.

2\.         As of 18 February 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified four additional cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. Of these, three are linked to the Grace Assembly of God
and one is linked to a previous case.\

**Links between previous cases found**\

3\.        Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. This
was made possible with the assistance of the Singapore Police Force.\

-   Cases 8 and 9, as well as Cases 31, 33 and 38, are linked to The
    Life Church and Missions Singapore (146B Paya Lebar Road).

-   Nine of the confirmed cases (Cases 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 34
    and 40) are linked to Yong Thai Hang (24 Cavan Road).

-   Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 30, 36 and 39) are linked to the
    private business meeting held at Grand Hyatt Singapore from 20 to 22
    January.

-   Five of the confirmed cases (Cases 42, 47, 52, 56 and 69) are linked
    to the Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site.

-   21 of the confirmed cases (Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61,
    62, 63, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 73, 74, 78, 80 and 81) are linked to the
    Grace Assembly of God.

-   Case 44 is linked toCases 13 and 26;

-   Case 72 is linked to Cases 59 and 79;

-   Case 50is linked to 55, 65 and 77; and

-   Case 75 is linked to Case 41.

 4.            Contact tracing is underway for the other seven locally
transmitted cases to establish any links to previous cases or travel
history to mainland China.\

**About the confirmed cases **\

Case 78

5\.            Case 78 is a 57 year-old female Singapore Citizen with no
recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation
room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). She is
linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of God. 

6\.          She reported onset of symptoms on 9 February and had sought
treatment at two general practitioner (GP) clinics on 10 February and 17
February. She was conveyed to NCID on 17 February. Subsequent test
results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 17 February afternoon. \

7\.           Prior to hospital admission, she had gone to work at a
VWO-run community hospital. She performs an administrative function at
the community hospital, and had not interacted with patients since onset
of symptoms. She stays at the Dairy Farm area.  

Case 79

8\.          Case 79 is a 35 year-old female Malaysian national who is a
Singapore Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to China.
She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is a family
member of Case 72 \[1\]. 

9\.          She reported onset of symptoms on 12 February. As she had
been identified as a close contact of Case 72, she was placed under home
quarantine from 15 February. She was conveyed to NCID via an ambulance
on 17 February. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on
17 February afternoon.  

10\.        Before she was served a Quarantine Order, she had gone to
work at FoodXchange @ Admiralty (8A Admiralty Street). Her job function
at FoodXchange does not entail handling of food. She stays at Woodlands
Crescent. \

Case 80

11\.         Case 80 is a 38 year-old female Singapore Citizen with no
recent travel history to China. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 18 February morning, and is currently warded in an
isolation room at the National University Hospital (NUH). She is linked
to Case 66 \[2\]. She works at NUH in an administrative function, and
had not interacted with patients since onset of symptoms.  

Case 81

12\.          Case 81 is a 50 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no
recent travel history to China. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 18 February morning, and is currently warded in an
isolation room at NCID. He is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly of
God.  

Case 77 (Announced on 17 February)

13\.         Case 77 is a 35 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no
recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation
room at NCID. He is a contact of Case 50 \[3\]. 

14\.           He reported onset of symptoms on 10 February and sought
treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, and again on 11 February. He
went to Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 12 February and was transferred to
NCID on the same day. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19
infection on 17 February morning.\
\
15.         Prior to hospital admission, he had mostly stayed at his
home at McNair Road.\

**Update on condition of confirmed cases**

16\.         To date, a total of 29 cases have fully recovered from the
infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 52 confirmed
cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving. Four are
in critical condition in the intensive care unit. \

**Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases**

17\.          Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.  

18\.          As of 18 February 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 2,486
close contacts who have been quarantined. Of these, 1,160 are currently
quarantined, and 1,326 have completed their quarantine. \

**Health advisory\
\
**19. **       ** Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China. \

20\.            All travellers should monitor their health closely for
two weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly
if they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their
travel history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g.
cough, shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic
ahead of the visit. 

21\.          Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times: \

-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating,

    after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by respiratory
    secretions after coughing or sneezing);

-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;

-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and

-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

     

22\.         MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases, Singapore is
likely to see more cases that will need to be investigated.

\

<div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div id="ftn1">

\[1\] Case 72 is a 40 year-old male Chinese national who is a Singapore
Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to China. He is a
non-medical contact of Case 59.

</div>

<div id="ftn2">

\[2\] Case 66 is a 28 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent
travel history to China. He is linked to the cluster at Grace Assembly
of God.

</div>

<div id="ftn3">

\[3\] Case 50 is a 62 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent
travel history to China who was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
12 February.

</div>

</div>
