Update on Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in Singapore

Update on Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in Singapore
==================================================

Published Date: 26 Jan 2020

As of 12pm, 26 January 2020, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has not been
notified of any new confirmed cases of Wuhan coronavirus infection in
Singapore. Four confirmed cases were announced on 23, 24 and 26
January.\
\
2. MOH has been notified of a cumulative total of 92 suspect cases, of
which 46 have tested negative for the Wuhan coronavirus, and four have
tested positive. Test results for the remaining 42 cases are pending. \
\
About the fourth confirmed case \
\
3. The fourth confirmed case involves a 36 year-old male Chinese
national from Wuhan who is currently being treated in an isolation ward
at Sengkang General Hospital. \
\
4. Prior to hospital admission on 24 January, the patient stayed at
Village Hotel Sentosa and indicated that he had visited Universal
Studios Singapore and Vivocity. He had travelled on public transport,
including taxi. The risk of infection from transient contact, such as on
public transport or public spaces, is assessed to be low. \
\
5. Nine individuals have been identified as close contacts of the case.
As of 26 January, 12pm, eight have been contacted, and are being
quarantined. Efforts are ongoing to contact the remaining close
contact.\
\
Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases\
\
6. Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once identified,
MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a precautionary measure,
they will be quarantined for 14 days from their last exposure to the
patient. In addition, all other identified contacts who have a low risk
of being infected will be under active surveillance, and will be
contacted daily to monitor their health status.\
\
7. As of 26 January, 12pm, MOH has identified 115 close contacts from
the four confirmed cases. Of the 86 who are still in Singapore, 66 have
been contacted and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are
ongoing to contact the remaining 20 close contacts.\
\
Health advisory\
\
8. Singaporeans are advised not to travel to the whole of Hubei
Province. MOH also advises Singaporeans to continue to exercise caution
and attention to personal hygiene when travelling to the rest of China.\
\
9. All travellers should monitor their health closely for two weeks upon
return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if they feel
unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel history.
If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough, shortness of
breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead of the
visit.\
\
10. Travellers and members of the public should adopt the following
precautions at all times: \
\
• Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
consumption of raw and undercooked meats; \
• Avoid crowded places and close contact with people who are unwell or
showing symptoms of illness; \
• Observe good personal hygiene; \
• Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food or
eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by respiratory
secretions after coughing or sneezing); \
• Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
shortness of breath; \
• Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and \
• Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.\
\
11. MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As medical
practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who have
recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect cases
that will need to be investigated for possible links to the Wuhan
cluster.
