No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 23 Dec 2020

               As of 23 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 21 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 20 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

21



21

0



1

20

TOTAL

21















2.         Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained low, with a total of 1 case in the past week who is currently
unlinked. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 21

Amongst the 21 imported cases, 3 (Cases 58715, 58716 and 58717) are
Singaporeans and 5 (Cases 58698, 58710, 58712, 58713 and 58714) are
Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from Canada, India and the
UK. Another 9 (Cases 58699, 58700, 58701, 58702, 58703, 58704, 58705,
58706 and 58707) are foreign domestic workers who arrived from
Indonesia, India and Myanmar. In addition, there are 2 Student’s Pass
holders (Cases 58718 and 58719) who arrived from India. The remaining
cases are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case 58709 arrived from India
to visit his Singaporean relatives and Case 58708 arrived from Sweden to
board a ship docked here as a crew member.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

3.         Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

4.           Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

CONFIRMATION OF 1 CASE WITH UK VIRUS STRAIN

5.          In light of recent reports that the B117 strain, a
potentially more contagious strain of the COVID-19 virus, is circulating
in the UK, the National Public Health Laboratory is performing viral
genomic sequencing for confirmed COVID-19 cases who had arrived from
Europe recently. A total of 31 imported cases from Europe, who arrived
in Singapore between 17 November and 17 December 2020, were confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection in December 2020. Amongst them, 12 were not
infected with the B117 strain, and 1 (Case 58504) has been found to
carry the B117 strain. 5 samples cannot be sequenced due to their low
viral load, and we are pending confirmatory results for another 11 cases
who are preliminarily positive for the B117 strain. 2 cases have not
been tested so far.

6.             There is currently no evidence that the B117 strain is
circulating in the community. All the cases had been placed on 14-day
SHN at dedicated facilities or isolated upon arrival in Singapore, and
their close contacts had been quarantined earlier.

7.               Case 58504, who was infected with the B117 strain, is a
17 year-old female Singaporean who had been studying in the UK from
August 2020. She returned to Singapore on 6 December and served SHN at a
dedicated SHN facility upon arrival. She developed a fever the next day,
and was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 8 December. Her case was
included in our case count on the same day. All her close contacts had
been placed on quarantine, and had tested negative for COVID-19
infection at the end of their quarantine period. As she had been
isolated upon arrival in Singapore, we were able to ringfence this case
so that there was no further transmission arising from her.

8.          As a precautionary measure to reduce the risk of spread to
Singapore, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce announced yesterday that from 23
December 2020, 2359 hours, all long-term pass holders and short-term
visitors with recent travel history to the UK within the last 14 days
will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit through Singapore.
Returning SCs and PRs will be required to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test
upon arrival in Singapore, at the start of their 14-day SHN.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

9.              18 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,322 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

10.           There are currently 34 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 97 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
