139 More Cases Discharged 54 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



139 MORE CASES DISCHARGED 54 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 30 Aug 2020

              As of 30 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified an additional 54 cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

Amongst the new cases today, 47 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 7 were symptomatic.

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
|                 | ALREADY IN      | DETECTED FROM   | TOTAL           |
|                 | QUARANTINE/     | SURVEILLANCE    |                 |
|                 | ISOLATION       |                 |                 |
|                 | BEFORE          |                 |                 |
|                 | DETECTION       |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| IMPORTED CASES  | 7               | 0               | 7               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| CASES IN THE    | 7               | 1               | 8               |
| COMMUNITY       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| CASES RESIDING  | 22              | 17              | 39              |
| IN DORMITORIES  |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

A) IMPORTED CASES: 7 (5 Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents, 1 Work Permit
holder, 1 Dependant’s Pass holder)

Amongst the 7 imported cases, 5 (Cases 56816, 56821, 56822, 56842 and
56852) are Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents who returned to Singapore
from Bangladesh on 17 August, India on 18 August and 22 August, the
Philippines on 18 August and UAE on 8 August [1]. Another case (Case
56824) is a Work Permit holder currently employed in Singapore who
arrived from the Philippines on 18 August. The remaining case (Case
56820) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from Pakistan on 18
August. All of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN)
upon arrival in Singapore, and had been tested while serving their SHN
at dedicated facilities.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 8 (7 Singaporeans, 1 Work Pass holder)

Of the 8 cases in the community, 2 were picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening, and 6 had already been placed on
quarantine earlier. 3 of the cases are asymptomatic, and were detected
through our proactive testing

7 of the community cases today are linked to previous cases or clusters.
Of these, 6 cases had been identified as contacts of previously
confirmed cases, and had been placed on quarantine earlier. They were
tested during quarantine to determine their status. Amongst them, 5
cases (Cases 56823, 56827, 56830, 56831 and 56832) are part of a family
cluster involving individuals across 2 households. These individuals had
participated in family gatherings, and investigations are ongoing to see
if there were any breaches of safe distancing rules. We take a serious
view of such breaches and will not hesitate to take enforcement actions
against any offenders.

Another case (Case 56826) is a colleague of Case 56184 at SLR Revolution
at Excelsior Shopping Centre (5 Coleman Street), and had earlier been
placed on quarantine. As a precautionary measure following the detection
of an earlier case (Case 56626) who had visited the shop during Case
56184’s infectious period, MOH has identified and contacted 240
individuals who had visited SLR Revolution at Excelsior Shopping Centre
between 15 August and 18 August 2020, and facilitated COVID-19 testing
for all of them, even though the risk of infection for visitors is
assessed to be low. So far, a total of 224 individuals have been swabbed
and the results are pending. MOH is facilitating testing for the
remaining individuals.

The remaining case (Case 56829) had gone to see a General Practitioner
under the Swab and Send Home (SASH) Programme on 27 August and was
diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI), and was administered
with a swab  test. Before the test result was ready, Case 56828 was
separately identified as a close contact of Case 56740 and was placed on
quarantine on 28 August. The test result from the clinic subsequently
confirmed that this was a positive case.

There is 1 case in the community who is currently unlinked. Case 56851
was detected as a result of our Rostered Routine Testing of workers in
the construction, marine and process sectors who are living outside the
dormitories. Epidemiological investigations of the case are in progress.
In the meantime, all the identified close contacts of the case have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for his household contacts to
determine if he could have been infected by them.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 2 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 3 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We
will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 39

Amongst the 39 cases residing in dormitories, 22 had been identified
earlier as contacts of previous cases, and had already been quarantined
to prevent further transmission. They were tested during quarantine to
determine their status.

The remaining 17 cases were detected through surveillance testing, such
as our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in
dormitories and testing of those with ARI symptoms. This allows us to
pick up cases early, including asymptomatic ones, so that we are able to
ring-fence them quickly to prevent further transmission, by aggressively
containing, tracing and isolating the close contacts.

Besides the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, we have also conducted
serological tests to determine if some of these cases are current or
past infections [2].The serological test results for 14 cases have come
back positive so far, which indicate likely past infections.

2.             Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.             Of the new cases, 91% are imported or linked to known
cases/ clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.           Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.            139 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 55,586 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

6.               There are currently 74 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 1,084 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 56816 had returned to Singapore on 8 August and served SHN at a
dedicated facility with her parent. She was subsequently placed on
quarantine when her parent was tested positive for COVID-19. Due to an
administrative error, this case had not been included in the case count
earlier although public health actions commenced from the date of
confirmation.

[2] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely to have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.


