Additional Precautionary Measures in Response to Escalating Situation in
Daegu and Cheongdo

Additional Precautionary Measures in Response to Escalating Situation in Daegu and Cheongdo
===========================================================================================

Published Date: 25 Feb 2020

  In view of the surge in the number of confirmed cases in the Republic
of Korea, particularly in Daegu city and Cheongdo county, the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce will put in place further precautionary
measures to limit the risk that travellers from these affected regions
pose to Singapore.\
\
2        As of 25 February 2020, 12pm, the Republic of Korea has
reported 893 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection. These include 501
cases linked to the Shincheonji Church of Jesus in Daegu, and 113 from
Daenam Hospital in Cheongdo.  246 cases are currently under
investigation and are not linked to either cluster. Daegu and Cheongdo
have been designated as “special care zones”. The Republic of Korea
government has raised the alert level to the highest level of ‘serious’,
and has aggressively strengthened its response system to reduce the risk
of further transmission.\
\
3      With the rapidly evolving situation in these regions, visitors
and returning travellers from Daegu and Cheongdo pose a heightened risk
to Singapore. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has decided to step up
precautionary measures to limit the potential risk this group poses to
Singapore, based on the current risk assessment. 

**New visitors with travel history to Daegu and Cheongdo**\
\
4       From 26 February 2020, 2359 hours, all new visitors with recent
travel history to Daegu and Cheongdo within the last 14 days will not be
allowed entry into Singapore, or transit through Singapore.  

**Returning residents and long-term pass holders placed on Stay-Home
Notice\
\
**5**        **The following returning groups will be issued with a
Stay-Home Notice (SHN):\
\
a) Residents (Singaporean Citizens and Permanent Residents) with recent
travel history to Daegu and Cheongdo within the last 14 days; and\
\
b) Long-term pass holders (including work passes and permits, Student’s
Pass, Dependant’s Pass, and Long-term Visit Pass) with recent travel
history to Daegu and Cheongdo within the last 14 days.

Under the SHN, they will have to remain in their place of residence at
all times for a 14-day period after returning to Singapore.\
\
6       As announced on 23 February, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
advises travellers to avoid non-essential travel to Daegu and Cheongdo.
The public are also reminded to continue to exercise caution when
travelling to the rest of the Republic of Korea.\
\
7      MOH has already expanded the definition of suspect cases to
include persons with pneumonia or severe respiratory infection with
breathlessness who had been to Daegu and/or Cheongdo of the Republic of
Korea, within 14 days before onset of symptoms. Cases meeting the
expanded definition will be referred to hospitals for further
assessment. \
\
8      The previously announced travel advisory for Singaporeans to
defer all travel to Hubei Province and all non-essential travel to
Mainland China, as well as measures on Hubei travellers and returning
residents from Hubei, remain in place. \
\
9      MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. The Taskforce
stands ready to put in place further measures as the situation evolves. 

**Health Advisory\
\
**10**    **All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.\
\
11    Travellers and members of the public should adopt the following
precautions at all times: 

-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness; 

-   Observe good personal hygiene; 

-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing); 

-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath; 

-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and 

-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

12      Given the evolving situation and ongoing investigations in the
Republic of Korea, Singapore residents who need to travel to the
affected areas are advised to regularly check MOH’s website
([www.moh.gov.sg](http://www.moh.gov.sg/)) for updates. Travellers to
the Republic of Korea are also advised to stay vigilant, monitor
developments and heed the advice of the local authorities while in the
Republic of Korea.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

25 FEBRUARY 2020
