Investigations Into 13 Covid-19 Cases Who Served Shn At Mandarin Orchard
Singapore



INVESTIGATIONS INTO 13 COVID-19 CASES WHO SERVED SHN AT MANDARIN ORCHARD SINGAPORE


Published Date: 19 Dec 2020

1.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) is investigating 13 cases of
COVID-19 infection amongst individuals who had served Stay-Home Notice
(SHN) at Mandarin Orchard Singapore (333 Orchard Road). As a
precautionary measure, Mandarin Orchard Singapore will stop accepting
new guests with immediate effect. Those currently serving SHN at the
hotel will be moved to another SHN dedicated facility. The hotel has
made arrangements to check out existing guests progressively. Restaurant
and event spaces within the hotel will also be closed.

2.     As part of routine laboratory surveillance, the National Public
Health Laboratory conducts whole genome sequencing and phylogenetic
analysis on all COVID-19 cases. It takes about four weeks to culture the
virus and complete the genome sequencing. 13 imported cases, who were
confirmed between 2 November and 11 November to have COVID-19 infection,
were observed to have high genetic similarity despite the cases having
arrived from different countries, including Bahrain, Canada, Indonesia,
Myanmar, Netherlands, Philippines, South Korea, UAE, UK and US. This
suggests that these cases were likely infected from a similar source.
Further investigations by MOH found that these 13 cases [1] had served
SHN at Mandarin Orchard Singapore between 22 October and 11 November
2020. Genome sequencing and analysis are continuing for cases beyond 11
November. [2]
3.     Epidemiological investigations were immediately initiated to
determine if there is a potential link between these 13 cases, and to
study if transmission could have occurred locally, and not from their
country of origin. From MOHâ€™s preliminary investigations, we cannot
exclude that transmissions could have occurred at Mandarin Orchard
Singapore.
4.     Persons on SHN are housed in a dedicated tower and floors at the
hotel, segregated from all other guests, with no interaction amongst
them. However as a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of all
guests in the hotel, the hotel will check out all its occupants. Persons
serving SHN will be transported via dedicated vehicles to an alternative
SHN dedicated facility. Deep cleaning and disinfection will be carried
out by the hotel, in consultation with MOH and the National Environment
Agency.
5.     MOH has commenced a special testing operations to test around 500
staff of the hotel for COVID-19 infection. These include both staff
serving those on SHN, and those who serve other guests in other parts of
the hotel. We will also test all who are currently serving SHN at
Mandarin Orchard Singapore for COVID-19 infection to determine their
status, instead of waiting till their SHN exit swab.
6.     Guests who have stayed at Mandarin Orchard Singapore between 11
November and 19 December are advised to monitor their health closely for
14 days from their last date of stay. They should see a doctor promptly
if they develop symptoms of acute respiratory infection (such as cough,
sore throat and runny nose), as well as fever and loss of taste or
smell, and inform the doctor of their exposure history.

7.     Hotels used as SHN dedicated facilities must have in place strict
protocols to segregate persons on SHN from all other guests. These
include placing persons on SHN in segregated blocks, wings or floors,
and ensuring their route of movement is clearly demarcated from other
guests. Persons on SHN are also not allowed to leave their rooms during
their stay, and rooms are thoroughly disinfected and sanitised upon
completion of SHN according to strict infection control measures. They
will also not be allowed access to common facilities in the hotels. The
Singapore Tourism Board and Singapore Police Force conduct regular
checks on these hotels to ensure that safe management measures are
complied with, and that security measures are in place. The Government
takes a serious view of any breach in protocols and will investigate and
take actions should there be non-compliance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases 58204, 58235, 58233, 58236, 58237, 58234, 58244, 58245, 58253,
58252, 58268, 58281 and 58284. These cases were classified as imported
cases due to their recent travel history.

[2] Mandarin Orchard Singapore has stopped taking in persons on SHN from
13 December as its contract to serve as a dedicated SHN facility will
expire at the end of the month.
