Medifund Continues to Assist Needy Singaporeans With Their Healthcare
Needs



MEDIFUND CONTINUES TO ASSIST NEEDY SINGAPOREANS WITH THEIR HEALTHCARE NEEDS


Published Date: 30 Dec 2020

1.     The Medical Endowment Fund (MediFund) provided a total of $159.1
million through more than 1.2 million successful applications in
assistance to needy Singaporeans for their medical bills in Financial
Year (FY) 2019, i.e. for the period 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. This
was an increase of $2.6 million compared to the $156.5 million disbursed
in FY2018.
2.     MediFund assists needy Singaporean patients who are unable to
afford their medical bills, after government subsidies, insurance and
MediSave. MediFund Silver and MediFund Junior provide more targeted
assistance for the elderly and children respectively. MediFund ensures
that no Singaporean will be denied basic medical care due to inability
to pay.
3.     The increase in assistance is due to the support extended
towards patients in Intermediate and Long-term Care (ILTC) facilities,
including the elderly. The key statistics of MediFund assistance
provided in FY2019 are:

(i) The number of approved MediFund applications was 1,215,809. This was
a 1.9% decrease from the 1,239,578 number of approved applications in
FY2018, contributed by a decrease in the total number of applications
over the period[1];
(ii) In public hospitals and institutions, a total assistance of $122.8
million was provided to patients, compared to $124.2 million in FY2018;
(iii) In ILTC facilities, a total assistance of $36.2 million was
provided to patients, compared to $32.3 million in FY2018; and
(iv) On average, the amount of MediFund assistance provided was about
$900 per inpatient treatment, and about $90 per outpatient treatment.

4.     More details can be found in the Medical Endowment Scheme Annual
Report 2019/2020.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
30 DECEMBER 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Total applications decreased by about 1.7%.
