2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection [30 Oct]



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION [30 OCT]


Published Date: 30 Oct 2020

      As of 30 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 2 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. Of these, 1 is in the community, and 1 resides in a
dormitory. In addition, there are 7 imported cases, who had all been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. All new
cases today are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

BREAKDOWN BY

BREAKDOWN BY

NUMBER OF CASES

ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE

SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1

0

1

0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1

1

0

0

1

IMPORTED CASES

7

7

0

0

7

TOTAL

9

2.      Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 2 cases in the week before, to 4 in the past week. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 1 case in the
week before, to 4 in the past week. We will continue to closely monitor
these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58176 is asymptomatic and was detected when he underwent a pre-departure
COVID-19 test on 27 October prior to a planned trip to India which came
back positive. He had been in India in July and August 2020, and had
served 14-day SHN at a dedicated facility when he returned to Singapore
on 28 August. He was tested negative for COVID-19 while serving SHN. His
serological test taken on 29 October is positive, and epidemiological
investigations are ongoing to determine if this could be a past
infection.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1
There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today. He had been identified
earlier as a contact of previous cases, and had already been quarantined
to prevent further transmission. He was tested during quarantine to
determine his status.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases, 1 (Case 58175) is a Singapore Permanent
Resident who returned from Italy, and 1 (Case 58179) is a Long-Term
Visit Pass holder who arrived from Bangladesh. Another 4 are currently
employed in Singapore. Of these, 3 (Cases 58171, 58172 and 58173) are
Work Pass holders who arrived from US, Belgium and Portugal, and 1 (Case
58174) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Bangladesh. The
remaining case (Case 58180) is a Special Pass holder who arrived from
the Philippines to board a ship docked here as a crew member. They had
all been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were tested while
serving SHN.
3.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).
4.      Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex A and Annex B for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.     10 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,909 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.      There are currently 42 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 24 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
30 OCTOBER 2020


