Three more Confirmed Imported Cases of Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in
Singapore

Three more Confirmed Imported Cases of Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in Singapore
===============================================================================

Published Date: 29 Jan 2020

[ ]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

[1.     As of 29 January 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed three additional cases of Wuhan coronavirus infection in
Singapore. Seven confirmed cases were earlier announced by
MOH]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}[.]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

[2.     All three cases are Chinese nationals who travelled from Wuhan.
This is consistent with our assessment that more imported cases are
expected [from Hubei province.]{} There is currently no evidence of
community spread in
Singapore.]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}\

**[About the
cases]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}**\

[Cases 8 and 9]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

3\.     The eighth and ninth cases are a 56 year-old female and 56
year-old male respectively. The married couple are both Chinese
nationals from Wuhan who arrived together in Singapore on 19 January.
They are currently warded in isolation rooms at the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases (NCID).

4\.     Both cases reported that they were asymptomatic during the flight
to Singapore. They subsequently developed symptoms on 24 January, and
took a taxi to Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 27 January. They were
classified as suspect cases and immediately isolated at NCID. Subsequent
test results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 28 January at
about 11pm and 29 January at about 2pm respectively.

5\.     Prior to hospital admission, the cases stayed with their family
at their home at Lorong Lew Lian. \

[Case 10]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

6\.     The tenth confirmed case is a 56 year-old male Chinese national
who arrived in Singapore from Wuhan on 20 January. He is currently
warded in an isolation room at NCID.

7\.     The case reported that he was asymptomatic during his flight to
Singapore. He subsequently developed symptoms on 21 January, and was
admitted to NCID on 28 January after being identified as a suspect case
at a health screening station at Marina South Pier. Subsequent test
results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 29 January at about
2pm.

8\.     Prior to hospital admission, the case worked and lived on board a
cargo vessel.

9\.     MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the cases. \

**[Update on condition of confirmed
cases]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}**\

[10.     The three new cases are stable currently, and we are continuing
to monitor their health. As for the seven previously announced cases,
all of them remain in stable condition, and most are
improving. ]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

**[Update on suspect
cases]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}**\

[[11.     As of 29 January, 12pm, 124 of the suspect cases have tested
negative for the Wuhan coronavirus, and eight have tested positive
(cases 9 and 10 were confirmed at about 2pm). Test results for the
remaining 70 cases are pending.
]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}]{}

[**[Update on contact tracing for confirmed
cases]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}**]{}\

[[12.     Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health
status.]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}]{}

13\.     [As of 29 January, 12pm, MOH has identified 144 close contacts.
Of the 115 who are still in Singapore, 111 have been contacted and are
being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to contact the
remaining four close
contacts]{style="color: black;"}[.]{style="color: rgb(112, 48, 160);"}

**[Health advisory\
]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}**

14.     [Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei Province
and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.
]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

15\.     [All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.]{style="color: black;"}

16\.     [Travellers and members of the public should adopt the following
precautions at all times: ]{style="color: black;"}\

-   [Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
    ]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
-   [Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
    ]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
-   [Observe good personal hygiene;
    ]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
-   [Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
    ]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
-   [Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
    ]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
-   [Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
    ]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
-   [Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling
    unwell.]{style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}

17\.     [MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As medical
practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who have
recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect cases
that will need to be investigated for possible links to the Wuhan
cluster.]{style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"}
