2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 14 Oct 2020



             As of 14 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified 2 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. Both are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. In addition, there are 3 imported cases, who had all been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival. Amongst the new cases
today, 1 is asymptomatic, and was detected from our proactive screening
and surveillance, while 4 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

2



2

0



2

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

3



3

0



2

1

TOTAL

5













2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from an average of 1 case per day in the week before, to an average of
fewer than 1 per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in
the community has also decreased from an average of fewer than 1 case
per day in the week before, to none in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.        All the new cases today are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2

There are 2 cases in the community today who are contacts of a
previously confirmed case. Cases 58045 and 58047 had earlier been
identified as contacts of Case 57947. All 3 cases are family members
residing in the same household. Cases 58045 and 58047 were placed on
quarantine from 3 October, after Case 57947 was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection. They were swabbed on 3 October and both tested
negative for COVID-19. They later developed symptoms during quarantine
and subsequently tested positive on 13 October. Both cases are school
students, and had last been at their respective schools on 2 October.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no new cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 3

Amongst the 3 imported cases, 1 (Case 58043) is a Singaporean who
returned from the UK. Another (Case 58044) is a Short-Term Visit Pass
holder currently employed in Singapore who arrived from Russia. The
remaining case (Case 58046) is a Student’s Pass holder who arrived from
India. They had all been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.        Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

5.          Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

6.       Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex A and Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.         12 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,752 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.         There are currently 39 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 70 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.


