Two More Cases Discharged One New Case of COVID-19 Infection Confirmed

Two More Cases Discharged One New Case of COVID-19 Infection Confirmed
======================================================================

Published Date: 24 Feb 2020

             Two more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospital today (Cases 46 and 87). In all, 53 have fully recovered
from the infection and have been discharged from hospital.

2\.          As of 24 February 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified one more case of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore which is linked to the cluster at The Life Church and Missions
Singapore. \

**Links between previous cases found**

3\.        Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. This
was made possible with the assistance of the Singapore Police Force.\

-   Five of the locally transmitted confirmed cases (Cases 31, 33, 38,
    83 and 90), as well as Cases 8 and 9, are linked to The Life Church
    and Missions Singapore (146B Paya Lebar Road).
-   Nine of the confirmed cases (Cases 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 34
    and 40) are linked to Yong Thai Hang (24 Cavan Road).

-   Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 30, 36 and 39) are linked to the
    private business meeting held at Grand Hyatt Singapore from 20 to 22
    January.

-   Five of the confirmed cases (Cases 42, 47, 52, 56 and 69) are linked
    to the Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site.

-   23 of the confirmed cases (Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61,
    62, 63, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 73, 74, 78, 80, 81, 84 and 88) are
    linked to the Grace Assembly of God.\

4\.         Investigations on these clusters are ongoing. In addition to
the clusters, our investigations have identified the following links
between cases:\

-   Case 44 is linked to Cases 13 and 26;
-   Case 72 is linked to Cases 59 and 79;
-   Case 50is linked to Cases 55, 65 and 77;
-   Case 75 is linked to Case 41; and
-   Case 86 is linked to Case 82.

5\.          Contact tracing is underway for the other nine locally
transmitted cases to establish any links to previous cases or travel
history to mainland China.\

**About the confirmed cases **\

Case 90

6\.            Case 90 is a 75 year-old female Singapore Citizen who has
no recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an
isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).
She is linked to the cluster at The Life Church and Missions Singapore.\

7\.            She reported onset of symptoms on 9 February and had
sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic on 9 February, 17
February and 23 February. She was conveyed in an ambulance to the
emergency department at Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 23 February, where she
was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19
infection on 23 February afternoon. \

8\.           Prior to hospital admission, she had mostly stayed at her
home at Bishan Street 12. \

**Update on condition of confirmed cases**

9\.           To date, a total of 53 cases have fully recovered from the
infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 37 confirmed
cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving. Seven are
in critical condition in the intensive care unit. \

**Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases**

10\.          Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status. \

11\.            As of 24 February 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 2,842
close contacts who have been quarantined. Of these, 856 are currently
quarantined, and 1,986 have completed their quarantine. \

**Health advisory\
\
**12**.          ** Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to
Hubei Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China, and Daegu
city and Cheongdo county in the Republic of Korea. MOH also reminds the
public to continue to exercise caution when travelling to the rest of
the Republic of Korea.\

13\.             All travellers should monitor their health closely for
two weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly
if they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their
travel history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g.
cough, shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic
ahead of the visit.\

14\.            Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times: \

-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

15\.            MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases, Singapore is
likely to see more cases that will need to be investigated.
