No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 12 Dec 2020

               As of 12 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 8 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 7 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASE







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

8



8

0



1

7

TOTAL

8













2.        Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with no new cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 8

Amongst the 8 imported cases, 5 (Cases 58530, 58531, 58532, 58533 and
58536) are Singaporeans and 1 (Case 58538) is a Singapore Permanent
Resident who returned from Nepal, UK and India. Another 2 (Cases 58534
and 58537) are Dependant’s Pass holders who arrived from the US and
Maldives. They had already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore
and were tested while serving SHN.

3.           Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
4.             Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.             5 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,197 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

6.               There are currently 28 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 59 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
