Additional Precautionary Measures In Response to Novel Coronavirus
Pneumonia In China

Additional Precautionary Measures In Response to Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia In China
=====================================================================================

Published Date: 21 Jan 2020

<div>

</div>

            The Ministry of Health (MOH) notes the increase in the
number of cases and widened distribution of the novel coronavirus
pneumonia in China. In view of the confirmation of human-to-human
transmission by the Chinese authorities, MOH will put in place
additional precautionary measures to reduce the risk of importation of
the virus to Singapore.

2.            To date, only suspect cases with fever and pneumonia and
with travel history to Wuhan within 14 days before onset of symptoms
would be isolated. From 22 January 2020, we have widened the definition
of suspect cases to include persons with:

(i)            pneumonia and travel history to China within 14 days
before onset of symptoms; or

(ii)           acute respiratory infection who had been to any hospital
in China, within 14 days before onset of symptoms.

These cases will be isolated in hospital as a precautionary measure to
prevent transmission.

3.            From 22 January 2020, temperature screening at Changi
Airport will also be expanded to all inbound travellers on flights
arriving from China, and suspect cases meeting the expanded definition
above will be referred to hospitals for further assessment. Health
Advisory Notices will be issued to all travellers arriving at Changi
Airport from China, and health advisory posters will also be distributed
at land and sea checkpoints.

4.            MOH has also reminded doctors and healthcare workers to be
vigilant, and maintain strict infection control and prevention measures.

5.            To date, there have been no confirmed cases of the novel
coronavirus reported in Singapore. However, given the high volume of
international travel to Singapore, we expect to see more suspect cases,
and possibly imported cases. Once a case is confirmed, contact tracing
will be initiated, and we will implement strict isolation, quarantine,
and infection control and prevention measures to prevent further
transmission.

Health Advisory

6.            MOH urges the public to remain vigilant and to adopt good
personal hygiene practices. All travellers to China should monitor their
health closely and seek medical attention promptly if they feel unwell,
and also inform their doctor of their travel history.

7.            Members of the public should adopt the following
precautions at all times:

• Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
consumption of raw and  undercooked meats;

• Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms of
illness;

• Observe good personal hygiene;

• Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food or
eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by respiratory
secretions after coughing or sneezing);

• Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or runny
nose;

• Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and

• Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

8.            Given the evolving situation and ongoing investigations in
China, Singaporeans who need to travel to the affected areas are advised
to regularly check MOH’s website (www.moh.gov.sg) for updates.

\

