1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 15 Dec 2020

1.     As of 15 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 1 new case of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. The case resides in a dormitory and there are no new cases in
the community. There are 15 imported cases, who had already been placed
on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 13 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



0

1



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

15



15

0



2

13

TOTAL

16















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with no new cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today. Case 58562 is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he took a COVID-19 pre-departure
test in preparation for his return to China. His previous tests from
Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) had been negative. His serological test
result has come back positive, which indicates likely past infection. As
a precautionary measure, all his close contacts at the dormitory and his
workplace have been placed on quarantine.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 15

Amongst the 15 imported cases, 3 (Cases 58554, 58555 and 58558) are
Singaporeans who returned from India, UK and US. 6 are Work Pass (Case
58563) or Work Permit (Cases 58564, 58565, 58566, 58567 and 58568)
holders currently employed in Singapore who arrived from Brazil, India
and Indonesia. Another 2 are a Dependant’s Pass holder (Case 58553) who
arrived from Spain and a Student’s Pass holder (Case 58556) who arrived
from India. The remaining 4 are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Of these,
2 (Cases 58557 and 58561) arrived from Indonesia and India, and are
family members of Singaporeans or Singapore Permanent Residents. Case
58559 arrived from Russia to participate in a mixed martial arts
sporting event and Case 58560 arrived from Australia on an Air Travel
Pass. Both had been tested for COVID-19 upon arrival in Singapore, and
were isolated while waiting for their test results. They were
subsequently conveyed to the hospital when their tests came back
positive.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or upon arrival in
Singapore.

3.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

4.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.     23 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,233 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 25 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 54 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.
