<html>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <title>Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Hong Kong</title>
    <body><h1>Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Hong Kong</h1>
    <p>Published Date: 11 Dec 2020</p> 1. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the global COVID-19 situation, and will be tightening border measures given the deteriorating outbreak situation in Hong Kong. All travellers entering Singapore from <strong>13 December 2020, 2359 hours</strong>, who have a travel history in the past 14 days to Hong Kong will now be required to serve a 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN facilities. All travellers (except Singapore Citizens (SCs) and Permanent Residents (PRs)) entering Singapore from 18 <strong>December 2020, 2359 hours</strong>, who have a travel history in the past 14 days to Hong Kong will be required to take a COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test within 72 hours before departure.
<br>
<strong><br>Travellers from Hong Kong to Serve 14-Day SHN at Dedicated SHN Facilities and have Pre-Departure Test (PDT) 
</strong><br>
<br>2. We had earlier announced that travellers from Hong Kong are allowed to serve a 7-day SHN at their place of residence.
<br>
<br>3. Given the increased risk of community spread recently, all travellers entering Singapore from <strong>13 December 2020, 2359 hours </strong>who have a travel history (including transit) in the past 14 days to Hong Kong will be required to serve a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities. Travellers from Fiji, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, Thailand and now Hong Kong are allowed to opt out of dedicated SHN facilities and serve their 14-day SHN at their place of residence, if they fulfil the following criteria:
<br>
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a. Travelled to no other country/region than above-mentioned countries/regions<sup>1</sup>, in the last consecutive 14 days prior to entry; and 
<br>
<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; b. Are occupying their place of residence (i.e. residential address) alone, or only with household members who are also persons serving SHN with the same travel history and duration of SHN. 
<br>
<br>The COVID-19 tests will continue to be administered before the end of the SHN. 
<br>
<br>4. In addition, travellers who are not SCs or PRs, and who have recent travel history to Hong Kong within the last 14 days prior to entry will be required to take a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours before departure. Travellers will need to present a valid negative COVID-19 test result as a condition of approval to enter Singapore. This requirement will take effect for those arriving in Singapore from <strong>18 December 2020, 2359 hours</strong>. 
<br>
<br><strong>Regular Review of Border Measures
</strong><br>
<br>5. As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the <a title="" href="https://safetravel.ica.gov.sg/health" target="">SafeTravel website</a>&nbsp;. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry, including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities, tests and treatment.
<br>
<br>6. All travellers are reminded to accurately declare their travel history. Strict enforcement actions will be taken against false declarations.</body>
</html>