<html>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <title>79 More Cases Discharged, 447 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed</title>
    <body><h1>79 More Cases Discharged, 447 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed</h1>
    <p>Published Date: 02 May 2020</p> 1. As of 2 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed and verified an additional 447 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore. The breakdown is as follows: 
<br>
<br><strong>a) Imported cases: 0
</strong><br>
<br>There are no imported cases today. 
<br>
<br><strong>b) Cases in the community: 6 </strong>(4 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 2 Work Passes)
<br>
<br>The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average of 23 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 12 per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased, from an average of 14 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 6 per day in the past week.&nbsp;We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance programme.
<br>
<br><strong>c) Work Permit holders (residing outside dormitories): 10
</strong><br>
<br>The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside dormitories has decreased, from an average of 25 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 14 per day in the past week.&nbsp;
<br>
<br><strong>d) Work Permit holders (residing in dormitories): 431
</strong><br>
<br>We continue to pick up many more cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of extensive testing in these premises. 
<br>
<br>2. Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation Report (<a href="http://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report">www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report</a>). Please refer to <a title="Annex A" href="/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/annex-a-(2-may).pdf?sfvrsn=fbea6b62_0">Annex A</a>&nbsp;for the summary of the confirmed cases. 
<br>
<br>3. Of the new cases, 93% are linked to known clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing. 
<br>
<br>4. MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to Hero’s (69 Circular Road) and The Orange Ballroom (845 Geylang Road) for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the clusters have now been closed.
<br>
<strong><br>Links between previous cases found
</strong><br>
<br>5. In the past week (25 April to 1 May), MOH has uncovered links for 874 previously unlinked cases. 
<br>
<br>6. Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer to <a title="Annex B" href="/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/annex-b-(2-may).pdf?sfvrsn=c3f66f4f_0">Annex B</a>&nbsp;for details.
<br>
<br><strong>Cases from public healthcare sector
</strong><br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 17267 
</span><br>
<br>7. Case 17267 is a 27 year-old male Malaysian national who has no recent travel history to affected countries or regions. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 30 April, and is currently warded at National University Hospital (NUH).
<br>
<br>8. He is employed as a housekeeper at NUH but had not gone to work since onset of symptoms. 
<br>
<br><strong>Update on condition of confirmed cases
</strong><br>
<br>9. 79 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 1,347 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. 
<br>
<br>10. There are currently 1,710 confirmed cases who are still in hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 24 are in critical condition in the intensive care unit. 14,474 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 17 have passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection. 
<br>
<br>11. Case 1323, a 76 year-old male Singapore Citizen, has passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 1 May 2020. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 6 April, and had a history of cancer. Changi General Hospital has reached out to his family and is extending assistance to them.
<br>
<br>12. Case 17410, a 47 year-old male Bangladeshi national, has passed away on 1 May 2020. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection after his demise. Investigations are ongoing to establish the cause of death.
<br>
<br>
<br><strong>MINISTRY OF HEALTH
<br>2 MAY 2020
</strong><br></body>
</html>