6 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



6 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 05 Oct 2020

                 As of 5 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed and verified 6 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. Of these, 1 is in the community who is symptomatic,
and 5 reside in dormitories who are all asymptomatic. In addition, there
is 1 imported case, who had been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon
arrival and is also asymptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES





BREAKDOWN BY

BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES

ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE

SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1

1

0

1

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

5

5

0

0

5

IMPORTED CASES

1

1

0

0

1

TOTAL

7









2.             Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
increased from an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the week
before, to an average of 1 case in the past week. The number of unlinked
cases in the community has remained stable at an average of fewer than 1
case per day in the past 2 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor
these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

3.            All new cases are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters.

CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

Case 57968 had been identified as a contact of a previously confirmed
case who is her household member, and was placed on quarantine on 3
October. She developed symptoms the next day, and was tested and
subsequently conveyed to a hospital when her test result came back
positive on the same day. She is a student at a private school, and was
last in school on 2 October before onset of symptoms.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 5

All 5 cases residing in dormitories had been identified earlier as
contacts of previous cases, and had already been quarantined to prevent
further transmission. They were tested during quarantine to determine
their status.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 1
There is 1 imported case today who is asymptomatic. He had been placed
on 14-day SHN upon arrival in Singapore, and was tested while serving
SHN at a dedicated facility.

4.        Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

5.         Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests the close contacts to determine
if the cases could have been infected by them.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

6.             Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
Please refer to Annex A and Annex Bfor details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.           22 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,597 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

8.            There are currently 42 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 153 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.


