8 More Cases Discharged, 15 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



8 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 15 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 27 Sep 2020

1.     As of 27 September 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 15 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

Amongst the new cases today, 14 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
|                 | ALREADY IN      | DETECTED FROM   | TOTAL           |
|                 | QUARANTINE/     | SURVEILLANCE    |                 |
|                 | ISOLATION       |                 |                 |
|                 | BEFORE          |                 |                 |
|                 | DETECTION       |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| IMPORTED CASES  | 5               | 0               | 5               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| CASES IN THE    | 0               | 0               | 0               |
| COMMUNITY       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| CASES RESIDING  | 6               | 4               | 10              |
| IN DORMITORIES  |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+



a.  IMPORTED CASES: 5 (2 Permanent Residents, 3 Work Permit holders)



    Amongst the 5 imported cases, 2 (Cases 57832 and 57840) are
    Singapore Permanent Residents who returned to Singapore from India
    on 15 September and 25 September. The remaining 3 (Cases 57833,
    57834 and 57841) are Work Permit holders currently employed in
    Singapore who arrived from Indonesia and the Philippines on 15
    September.

    All of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon
    arrival in Singapore, and were tested while serving their SHN at
    dedicated facilities.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0



    There are no cases in the community today.

    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
    stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2
    weeks. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also
    remained stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the
    past 2 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as
    well as the cases detected through our surveillance programme.



c.  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 10

Amongst the 10 cases residing in dormitories, 6 had been identified
earlier as contacts of previous cases, and had already been quarantined
to prevent further transmission. They were tested during quarantine to
determine their status.

The remaining 4 cases were detected through surveillance testing, such
as our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in
dormitories. This allows us to pick up cases early, including
asymptomatic ones, so that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to
prevent further transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and
isolating the close contacts.



2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 93% are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.

4.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the dormitory
at 51 Paya Ubi Industrial Park for the past two incubation periods (i.e.
28 days), the cluster has now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     8 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,367 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 31 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 275 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.

