1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 28 Dec 2020

            As of 28 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified that there is 1 new case of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The case is in the community, and there
are no new cases in the dormitories. There are 4 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 2 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 3 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



0

1



0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

4



4

0



3

1

TOTAL

5















2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained low, with a total of 1 case in the past week who is currently
unlinked. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58766 is a Singaporean who works as a cabin crew with Singapore
Airlines, and a part-time private hire car driver with Grab. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected through proactive testing arranged by the
Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore of air crew who had returned from
overseas flights.

He recently travelled to the US for work from 12 December to 16 December
on a controlled itinerary. He was tested on 23 December, but his test
result came back inconclusive on 25 December, necessitating another
test. A second test conducted on 25 December was also inconclusive. He
had remained at home while awaiting further tests.

His swab on 27 December came back positive for COVID-19 infection and he
was conveyed in an ambulance to the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases on the same day. His serological test result is negative, which
indicates a likely current infection. The cabin crew on the same US
flight as Case 58766 have all tested negative for COVID-19 infection on
23 December.

Given the relatively long time interval between his travel and positive
COVID-19 test, we have classified this case as locally transmitted while
epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the case, including his family members and
co-workers, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be
tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that we can
detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for
the close contacts to determine if the case could have been infected by
them.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 4

Amongst the 4 imported cases, 3 (Cases 58768, 58769 and 58771) are
Singaporeans who returned from India, Myanmar and the UK. The remaining
case (Case 58767) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India.
They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or under isolation.

3.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

4.  16 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,386 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

5.  There are currently 35 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 79 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
