1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 21 Dec 2020

  As of 21 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there is 1 new case of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The case is in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 9 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 8 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



0

1



0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

9



9

0



2

7

TOTAL

10















2.      Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with a total of 1 case in the past week who is currently unlinked.
We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.



CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58662 is a Singaporean who is asymptomatic and was detected when she was
tested for COVID-19 before a scheduled cruise trip.

She was conveyed in an ambulance to the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases the following day, when her test came back positive for
COVID-19 infection. The National Public Health Laboratory has run
further tests to verify that she is positive for COVID-19 infection. Her
serological test result is pending.

She stays at Jurong West Street 93, and had been at work at Ruising
Chemicals Pte Ltd (18 Boon Lay Way) before her test result was
confirmed.

It was revealed that on 14 December, she and her family had gone on a
Southern Islands tour with 2 other families, totaling 12 persons in all.
Investigations are ongoing to assess if there had been any breach of the
relevant safe management measures.

Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime, all her
identified close contacts, including her family members and co-workers,
have been isolated and placed on quarantine and will be tested at the
start and end of their quarantine period so that we can detect
asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests on her
household and family contacts to determine if she could have been
infected by them.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 9

Amongst the 9 imported cases, 3 (Cases 58660, 58663 and 58665) are
Singaporeans who returned from the UK and India. Another 3 are Work
Permit holders (Cases 58659 and 58667) currently employed in Singapore
who arrived from Indonesia and Myanmar, and a Student’s Pass holder
(Case 58666) who arrived from Myanmar. The remaining cases (Cases 58654,
58655 and 58661) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders who are crew members
of separate vessels which arrived from Indonesia. They had not
disembarked from their ships until they were conveyed to a quarantine
facility or hospital.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

3.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

4.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.



 INVESTIGATIONS INTO 13 CASES WHO SERVED SHN AT MANDARIN ORCHARD
SINGAPORE

5.  MOH is investigating 13 previously reported cases[1] of
COVID-19 infection amongst individuals who had served SHN at Mandarin
Orchard Singapore between 22 October and 11 November 2020. As a
precautionary measure to ensure the safety of all guests, the hotel has
stopped accepting new guests since 19 December, and all existing guests
checked out by 9pm on 20 December. All individuals serving SHN at
Mandarin Orchard Singapore have been transported via dedicated vehicles
to an alternative SHN dedicated facility on 20 December.

6.  MOH has completed our special testing operations to test
all individuals serving SHN at Mandarin Orchard Singapore, as well as
staff of the hotel. In total, 394 persons serving SHN at the hotel have
been swabbed. Of these, 391 were tested negative while 3 (Cases 58656,
58657 and 58658) were tested positive on 20 December and were
immediately conveyed to the hospital via ambulance. These 3 cases have
also tested serology positive. Given their serology results and recent
travel history, it is likely that these are imported cases who were
infected while they were overseas. These cases were announced by MOH on
20 December, and included in our daily case count.

7.  In total, MOH has tested 571 staff of Mandarin Orchard
Singapore, and all the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test results have
come back negative for COVID-19 infection. This means there is no
ongoing infection among staff of the hotel. The serological tests of 8
more staff have come back positive, indicating likely past infections,
in addition to the 3 announced yesterday. Epidemiological investigations
of these 11 cases are in progress. In the meantime, we will test their
identified close contacts as a precautionary measure, and also conduct
serological tests to determine if these individuals could have been
infected by them.

8.  Singapore reports COVID-19 cases in accordance with
international practice. Every case who tested positive through a PCR
test and is assessed to be an acute infection is reported and included
in our case count. We follow the World Health Organization’s criterion
that only positive results from confirmatory tests (i.e. PCR tests) are
included in the case count. This ensures consistency in reporting cases
across countries. The 11 cases whose serological tests have come back
positive, but whose PCR test results are negative for COVID-19
infection, are therefore not included in our daily case count.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

9.  8 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,287 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

10.  There are currently 46 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 70 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 DECEMBER 2020

[1] Cases 58204, 58235, 58233, 58236, 58237, 58234, 58244, 58245, 58253,
58252, 58268, 58281 and 58284. They were confirmed between 2 November
and 11 November to have COVID-19 infection. These cases were classified
as imported cases due to their recent travel history.
