Tender Closing for Site At Gibraltar Crescent for Dementia Care Village

Tender Closing for Site At Gibraltar Crescent for Dementia Care Village
=======================================================================

Published Date: 15 Jan 2020

1\. On behalf of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Urban Redevelopment
Authority closed the tender for the site at Gibraltar Crescent for a
dementia care village today.\

2\. The site was launched for sale via the Concept and Price Revenue
Tender approach on 16 July 2019. One tender submission was received
today, and under this approach, only the envelope containing the concept
proposal was opened for evaluation. Please see Annex A for the
particulars of the tenderer.\
\
**Concept and Price Revenue Tender\
\
**3. A Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach was adopted to evaluate
this tender. This is to ensure that the selected concept proposal aligns
with the vision of the dementia care village. \
\
4. Under this approach, tenderers are required to submit their concept
proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will first
be evaluated by a Concept Evaluation Committee, chaired by MOH, against
a set of criteria which include the suitability of the proposed model of
care for persons with dementia, as well as the quality of the care
programmes and services. Only concept proposals that are shortlisted
will proceed to the second stage for evaluation based on price only. \
\
5. This is not an announcement of tender award. A decision on the award
of the tender will be made after the tender has been evaluated. This
will be published at a later date.\
\
****

**MINISTRY OF HEALTH & URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY \
15 JANUARY 2020\
\
**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\
[Annex A\_Particulars of Tender Submitted for Dementia Care Residential
Site at Gibraltar
Crescent](/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/annex-a_particulars-of-tender-submitted-for-dementia-care-residential-site.pdf?sfvrsn=1e3f1683_0 "Annex A_Particulars of Tender Submitted for Dementia Care Residential Site at Gibraltar Crescent")**\
**\

