2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 17 Oct 2020

             As of 17 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified 2 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. Of these, 1 is in the community, and 1 resides in a
dormitory. In addition, there is 1 imported case, who had been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival. All new cases today are
asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and
surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



0

1



0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



0

1



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

1



1

0



0

1

TOTAL

3













2.           Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2
weeks. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also remained
stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2
weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the
cases detected through our surveillance programme.

3.             Of the new cases, 33% are imported or linked to known
cases/ clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58068 is a migrant worker who is currently unemployed. He was detected
as a result of our requirement for routine testing of Special Pass
holders, even though he is asymptomatic. His serological test result has
come back positive, which indicates likely past infection.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today. He was detected through
our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in dormitories.
This allows us to pick up cases early, including asymptomatic ones, so
that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to prevent further
transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and isolating the
close contacts.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 1

There is 1 imported case today. Case 58067 is a Singaporean who returned
from Indonesia. She had been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
was tested while serving SHN.

4.           Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

5.           Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

6.           Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex A and Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.           14 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,798 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

8.               There are currently 37 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 41 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.




