Two Charged Under Infectious Diseases Act for False Information and
Obstruction of Contact Tracing

Two Charged Under Infectious Diseases Act for False Information and Obstruction of Contact Tracing
==================================================================================================

Published Date: 26 Feb 2020

             Two individuals have been charged under the Infectious
Diseases Act for giving false information to officials from the Ministry
of Health (MOH) and obstructing the conduct of contact tracing.

2\.          The defendants are Hu Jun, a 38 year-old male Chinese
national from Wuhan, and his wife Shi Sha, a 36 year-old female Chinese
national who resides in Singapore. Hu arrived in Singapore on 22 January
2020 and was confirmed to be infected with COVID-19 on 31 January. Shi
had been identified as a close contact of Hu and was issued a Quarantine
Order on 1 February. Hu has since fully recovered from the infection and
had been discharged from hospital on 19 February.\

3\.            Once a COVID-19 case is confirmed, MOH initiates contact
tracing to identify individuals who may have been exposed to the case
while he/she was symptomatic. Close contacts are monitored closely and
may be quarantined, so that they can be identified and treated early if
they develop the disease. This measure also prevents close contacts from
mingling in the community if they become symptomatic, and helps to
contain further transmission of COVID-19. \

4\.          Both Hu and Shi had given false information to MOH officials
about their movements and whereabouts from 22 January to 29 January when
they were contacted for the purposes of contact tracing. Shi had also
provided false information while under quarantine. However MOH was able
to establish their true movements through detailed investigations.\

5\.            In view of the potentially serious repercussions of the
false information given by the defendants, and the risk they could have
posed to public health, MOH has served Hu and Shi charges on 25
February. The case will be heard in Court on 28 February.\

6\.            Any person convicted of an offence under the Infectious
Diseases Act is liable to a fine not exceeding \$10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both, for the
first offence. \

7\.             MOH reminds the public that under the Infectious Diseases
Act, it is an offence under the law for anyone to withhold or provide
inaccurate information to MOH officials during contact tracing. MOH
views such actions seriously and will not hesitate to take appropriate
action against the perpetrators.

 
