Three More Cases Discharged; Two New Cases of COVID-19 Infection
Confirmed

Three More Cases Discharged; Two New Cases of COVID-19 Infection Confirmed
==========================================================================

Published Date: 28 Feb 2020

            Three more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospital today (Cases 52, 79 and 89). In all, 69 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital.

2\.           As of 28 February 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified two more cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. Both cases are linked to a new cluster at Wizlearn
Technologies Pte Ltd (10 Science Park Road).\

**Links between previous cases found**\

3\.            Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. This
was made possible with the assistance of the Singapore Police Force.\

-   Six of the locally transmitted confirmed cases (Cases 31, 33, 38,
    83, 90 and 91), as well as Cases 8 and 9, are linked to The Life
    Church and Missions Singapore. These six cases are linked to another
    23 confirmed cases (Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62,
    63, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 73, 74, 78, 80, 81, 84, 88) who are linked
    to the Grace Assembly of God.\
-   Nine of the confirmed cases (Cases 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 34
    and 40) are linked to Yong Thai Hang. \
-   Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 30, 36 and 39) are linked to the
    business meeting held at Grand Hyatt Singapore from 20 to 22
    January. \
-   Five of the confirmed cases (Cases 42, 47, 52, 56 and 69) are linked
    to the Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site. \
-   Four of the confirmed cases (Cases 93, 95, 97 and 98) are linked to
    Wizlearn Technologies Pte Ltd.

4\.         Investigations on these clusters are ongoing. In addition to
the clusters, our investigations have identified the following links
between cases:\

-   Case 44 is linked to Cases 13 and 26;
-   Case 72 is linked to Cases 59 and 79;
-   Case 50 is linked to Cases 55, 65 and 77;
-   Case 75 is linked to Case 41;
-   Case 86 is linked to Case 82; and
-   Case 96 is linked to Case 94.

5\.         Contact tracing is underway for the other 10 locally
transmitted cases to establish any links to previous cases or travel
history to mainland China, Daegu or Cheongdo.\

**About the confirmed cases **\

Case 97 \

6\.            Case 97 is a 44 year-old female Singapore Permanent
Resident who has no recent travel history to China, Daegu and Cheongdo.
She is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases (NCID). She is linked to Cases 93 \[1\] and 95.\

7\.           She reported onset of symptoms on 20 February and had
sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day.
As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 93, she was
referred by MOH to NCID on 27 February and immediately isolated.
Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 27 February
afternoon.\

8\.           Prior to hospital admission, she had gone to work at
Wizlearn Technologies Pte Ltd and attended a business meeting at the
Agency for Integrated Care (5 Maxwell Road). She stays at Choa Chu Kang
North 5. \

Case 98

9\.          Case 98 is a 24 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident
who has no recent travel history to China, Daegu and Cheongdo. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 28 February morning and is
currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is linked to Cases 93,
95 and 97. \

Case 95 (Announced on 27 February)

10\.          Case 95 is a 44 year-old male Singapore Citizen who has no
recent travel history to China, Daegu and Cheongdo. He is currently
warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is linked to Case 93.\

11\.         He reported onset of symptoms on 22 February and had sought
treatment at two GP clinics on 25 February and 26 February. He was
referred to NCID on 26 February and was immediately isolated. Subsequent
test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 27 February morning.\

12\.         Prior to hospital admission, he had attended business
meetings at Sport Singapore (3 Stadium Drive), Singapore Aviation
Academy (1 Aviation Drive) and Toa Payoh Hub (490 Lorong 6 Toa Payoh),
and visited Toa Payoh Sport Centre (297 Lorong 6 Toa Payoh). He stays at
Choa Chu Kang Crescent. \

Case 96 (Announced on 27 February)\

13\.        Case 96 is a 12 year-old male Singapore Citizen who has no
recent travel history to China, Daegu and Cheongdo. He is currently
warded in an isolation room at KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital (KKH).
He is a family member of Case 94 \[2\].\

14\.        He reported onset of symptoms on 21 February and had sought
treatment at a GP clinic on 22 February. As he had been identified as a
close contact of Case 94, he was referred by MOH to KKH on 26 February
and was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19
infection on 27 February afternoon. 

15\.         He is a student at Raffles Institution and stays in the
Jalan Jurong Kechil area. \

**Update on condition of confirmed cases**

16\.         To date, a total of 69 cases have fully recovered from the
infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 29 confirmed
cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving. Seven are
in critical condition in the intensive care unit. \

**Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases**

17\.          Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status. \

18\.          As of 28 February 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 2,940
close contacts who have been quarantined. Of these, 191 are currently
quarantined, and 2,749 have completed their quarantine. \

**Health advisory\
\
**19. **          ** Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to
Hubei Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China, and Daegu
and Cheongdo in the Republic of Korea. MOH also reminds the public to
continue to exercise caution when travelling to the rest of the Republic
of Korea.\

20\.           All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.\

21\.          Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times: \

-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

     

22\.         MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases, Singapore is
likely to see more cases that will need to be investigated.

\

<div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div id="ftn1">

\[1\] Case 93 is a 38 year-old male Singapore Citizen who has no recent
travel history to China, Daegu and Cheongdo. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 26 February.

</div>

<div id="ftn2">

\[2\] Case 94 is a 64 year-old female Singapore Citizen who has no
recent travel history to China, Daegu and Cheongdo. She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 26 February afternoon

</div>

</div>
