908 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection



908 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 05 Aug 2020

       As of 5 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
preliminarily confirmed an additional 908 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore, the vast majority of whom are Work Permit holders residing in
foreign worker dormitories. Of these, the vast majority are dormitory
residents who were tested during their isolation/ quarantine period,
even though they are asymptomatic. They are amongst the final batch of
workers being cleared and they come from dormitories with a relatively
high prevalence of COVID-19. Hence we expect the daily case counts to be
high for the coming days, before tapering down thereafter as the
Inter-agency Taskforce completes the dormitory clearance.
2       We remain on track to clear all the dormitories by 7 August,
except for a few standalone blocks in the dormitories that serve as
quarantine facilities. There are presently about 9,700 workers in these
quarantine facilities. They will have to serve out their 14-day
isolation periods, and be subject to an exit test before they are able
to resume work.
3       Based on our investigations so far, there are 4 cases in the
community, of whom 3 are Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents and 1 is a
Work Pass holder. In addition, there are 4 imported cases, who had all
been placed on Stay-Home Notice upon arrival in Singapore.
4       We are still working through the details of the cases, and
further updates will be shared via the MOH press release that will be
issued tonight.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
5 AUGUST 2020


