<html>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <title>73 More Cases Discharged, 27 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed</title>
    <body><h1>73 More Cases Discharged, 27 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed</h1>
    <p>Published Date: 29 Sep 2020</p> 1. As of 29 September 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed and verified an additional 27 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
<br>
<br><strong>Summary of new cases
</strong><br>
<br>Amongst the new cases today, 26 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic. <br><br> <table width="601" bordercolor="#00000a" border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="7"> <colgroup><col width="226"> <col width="106"> <col width="106"> <col width="105"> <tbody><tr> <td width="226" valign="TOP" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p><br> </p><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"> </span></td> <td width="106" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"><strong>Already in quarantine/ isolation before detection </strong> </span></p> </td> <td width="106" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"><strong>Detected from surveillance </strong> </span></p> </td> <td width="105" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"><strong>Total</strong></span></p> </td> </tr> <tr> <td width="226" valign="TOP" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"><strong>Imported cases</strong></span></p> </td> <td width="106"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">9</span></p> </td> <td width="106"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">0</span></p> </td> <td width="105"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">9</span></p> </td> </tr> <tr> <td width="226" valign="TOP" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"><strong>Cases in the community </strong> </span></p> </td> <td width="106"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">1</span></p> </td> <td width="106"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">0</span></p> </td> <td width="105"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">1</span></p> </td> </tr> <tr> <td width="226" valign="TOP" bgcolor="#fff2cc"> <p><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;"><strong>Cases residing in dormitories </strong> </span></p> </td> <td width="106"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">8</span></p> </td> <td width="106"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">9</span></p> </td> <td width="105"> <p align="CENTER"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13px;">17</span></p> </td> </tr> </tbody></table> <br><strong>a) Imported cases: 9</strong> (1 Singaporean, 5 Permanent Residents, 1 Work Pass holder, 1 Work Permit holder, 1 Dependant’s Pass holder)
<br>
<br>Amongst the 9 imported cases, 1 (Case 57878) is a Singaporean and 5 (Cases 57869, 57870, 57871, 57879 and 57881) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned to Singapore from Indonesia on 18 September and India between 16 September and 18 September. Another 2 (Cases 57866 and 57880) are Work Pass/ Work Permit holders currently employed in Singapore who arrived from Indonesia on 17 September and India on 16 September. The remaining case (Case 57868) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India on 17 September. 
<br>
<br>All of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and were tested while serving their SHN at dedicated facilities. <br><br><strong>b) Cases in the community: 1</strong> (1 Work Permit holder)
<br>
<br>There is 1 case in the community today who was detected as a result of our proactive case finding. Case 57867 had been identified as a household contact of Cases 57847 and 57861. When contacted by MOH on 27 September after Case 57847 was confirmed with COVID-19 infection, Case 57867 reported having symptoms earlier and was immediately conveyed to a hospital for a swab. He was tested positive subsequently.
<br>
<br>Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks.&nbsp;We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance programme.
<br>
<br><strong>c) Cases residing in dormitories: 17
</strong><br>
<br>Amongst the 17 cases residing in dormitories, 8 had been identified earlier as contacts of previous cases, and had already been quarantined to prevent further transmission. They were tested during quarantine to determine their status.  
<br>
<br>The remaining 9 cases were detected through surveillance testing, such as our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in dormitories. This allows us to pick up cases early, including asymptomatic ones, so that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to prevent further transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and isolating the close contacts. 
<br>
<br>2. Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation Report (<a href="http://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report">www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report</a>). Please refer to <a title="Annex A" href="/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/annex-a-(29-sep).pdf?sfvrsn=726a8578_0">Annex A</a>&nbsp;for the summary of the confirmed cases. 
<br>
<br>3. Of the new cases, 85% are imported or linked to known cases/ clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing. 
<br>
<br>4. MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to SLR Revolution at Excelsior Shopping Centre (5 Coleman Street) for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.
<br>
<br><strong>Links between previous cases found
</strong><br>
<br>5. Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer to <a title="Annex B" href="/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/annex-b-(29-sep).pdf?sfvrsn=21223fe4_0">Annex B</a>&nbsp;and <a title="Annex C " href="/docs/librariesprovider5/default-document-library/annex-c-(29-sepl).pdf?sfvrsn=e0173167_0">Annex C </a>&nbsp;for details. 
<br>
<br><strong>Update on condition of confirmed cases
</strong><br>
<br>6. 73 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,466 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or community care facilities. 
<br>
<br>7. There are currently 32 confirmed cases who are still in hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive care unit. 217 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection. 
<br>
<br>
<br><strong>MINISTRY OF HEALTH
<br>29 SEPTEMBER 2020</strong></body>
</html>