Three More Confirmed Imported Cases of Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in
Singapore

Three More Confirmed Imported Cases of Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in Singapore
===============================================================================

Published Date: 31 Jan 2020

          As of 31 January 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed three additional imported cases of Wuhan coronavirus infection
in Singapore. Thirteen confirmed cases were earlier announced by MOH.

2.        All three cases have recent travel history to Wuhan. There is
currently no evidence of community spread in Singapore.

**About the cases**

Case 13

3.      The 13^th^ confirmed case was announced on 30 January. The case
is a 73 year-old female Chinese national who arrived in Singapore from
Wuhan on 21 January. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).

4.        The case reported that she was asymptomatic during her flight
to Singapore. She was a close contact of the second confirmed
case[\[1\]](#_ftn1){#_ftnref1}, and multiple attempts were made to
contact her immediately. She was located on 28 January, and reported
having developed symptoms on the same day. She was conveyed by an
ambulance to NCID, where she was immediately isolated. Subsequent test
results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 30 January at about
2pm.

5.          Prior to hospital admission, the case stayed at ParkRoyal
Collection Pickering (3 Upper Pickering Street) and Oasia Hotel Downtown
(100 Peck Seah Street). She indicated that she had visited Changi
Airport and Jewel, and had travelled on private transport and taxi. The
risk of infection from transient contact, such as on public transport or
in public places, is assessed to be low.

Case 14

6.        The 14^th^ case is a 31 year-old male Chinese national who is
a Singapore Work Pass holder. After a trip to Hubei, he arrived in
Singapore from Wuhan on 26 January. He is currently warded in an
isolation room at NCID.

\
7.          The case reported that he was asymptomatic during his flight
to Singapore. He subsequently developed symptoms on 28 January. He
sought medical treatment at a general practitioner clinic on 30 January,
and was conveyed by an ambulance to NCID, where he was immediately
isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection
on 30 January at about 11pm.

8.        Prior to hospital admission, the case stayed at his home in
Jurong East Street 13.

Case 15

9,         The 15^th^ case is a 47 year-old female Singapore Citizen who
travelled to Wuhan with her family. She was one of the Singaporeans
evacuated from Wuhan on 30 January, and arrived in Singapore on the same
day. She was asymptomatic when she boarded the flight. Upon arrival at
Changi Airport, she was found to have a fever during medical screening,
and was conveyed to NCID. She was tested positive for Wuhan coronavirus
infection on 31 January at about 2pm. She is currently warded in an
isolation room at NCID.

Case 16

10.        The 16^th^ case is a 38 year-old male Chinese national who
arrived in Singapore from Wuhan on 22 January. He was tested positive
for Wuhan coronavirus infection on 31 January at about 2pm. He is
currently warded in an isolation room at Singapore General Hospital.

11.        MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the cases.

**Update on condition of confirmed cases**

12.       The three new cases are stable currently, and we are
continuing to monitor their health. As for the 13 previously announced
cases, none is critically ill. All of them remain in stable condition,
and most are improving. 

**Update on suspect cases**

13.        As of 31 January, 12pm, 198 of the suspect cases have tested
negative for the Wuhan coronavirus, and 16 have tested positive (cases
15 and 16 were confirmed at about 2pm, 31 January). Test results for the
remaining 35 cases are pending.

**Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases**

14.        Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.

15.         As of 31 January, 12pm, MOH has identified 202 close
contacts. Of the 162 who are still in Singapore, 156 have been contacted
and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to contact
the remaining six close contacts.

**Health advisory**

16.        Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.\

17.         All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.

18.         Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

19.         MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who
have recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect
cases that will need to be investigated for possible links to the Wuhan
cluster.

 

 

<div>

\

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div id="ftn1">

</div>

</div>

[\[1\]](#_ftnref1){#_ftn1} The second case is 53 year-old female Chinese
national from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore on 21 January 2020.
