Updates to Stay-home Notice and Charging Policy for Travellers



UPDATES TO STAY-HOME NOTICE AND CHARGING POLICY FOR TRAVELLERS


Published Date: 27 Oct 2020

                  The Multi-Ministry Taskforce regularly reviews our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and onward local
transmission from travellers. Given the surveillance regime that we have
put in place for travellers serving Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at their own
residence, we will also adopt a risk-based approach and allow more
travellers to serve their 14-day SHN at a suitable place of residence.
From 1 January 2021, all incoming travellers will also be required to
pay for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities, and will be responsible
for their inpatient medical bills if they have onset of symptoms of
COVID-19 within 14 days of their entry to Singapore.
MORE TRAVELLERS ALLOWED TO SERVE 14-DAY SHN AT SUITABLE PLACE OF
RESIDENCE
2.               Currently, except for countries that we have
unilaterally opened up to, travellers from selected low risk countries/
regions serve a 7-day SHN at their place of residence or suitable
accommodation of their choice, and all other travellers serve a 14-day
SHN at dedicated SHN facilities.
3.               Since 11 August 2020, all travellers serving SHN
outside of dedicated SHN facilities are required to don an electronic
monitoring device throughout their SHN. This complements agencies’
checks to ensure compliance with the SHN. With the enhanced surveillance
regime in place, we will also adopt a risk-based approach and allow more
TRAVELLERS FROM ESTONIA, FIJI, FINLAND, JAPAN, NORWAY, REPUBLIC OF
KOREA, SRI LANKA, THAILAND AND TURKEY[1] TO OPT OUT OF DEDICATED SHN
FACILITIES AND SERVE THEIR 14-DAY SHN AT THEIR PLACE OF RESIDENCE, if
they fulfil the following criteria:
         a.     Travelled to no other country than above-mentioned
countries, in the last consecutive 14 days prior to entry; and
         b.     Are occupying their place of residence (i.e. residential
address) alone, or only with household members who are also persons
serving SHN with the same travel history and duration of SHN.
4.               Travellers from the abovementioned countries may apply
to opt out of dedicated SHN facilities from 2 NOVEMBER 2020, for
arrivals on or after 4 November 2020. For Singapore Citizens (SCs) and
Permanent Residents (PRs), the application must be made prior to arrival
via the Safe Travel Office website. Travellers who are not SCs or PRs
may apply to opt out as part of the entry approval process. All
travellers must present the approval to opt out upon arrival in
Singapore. As the list of countries will be updated from time to time
depending on the public health risk assessment, ALL TRAVELLERS MUST BE
PREPARED TO BE SUBJECT TO THE PREVAILING BORDER MEASURES UPON ENTRY,
INCLUDING STAY IN DEDICATED SHN FACILITIES AND PAYMENT, WHERE
APPLICABLE.
5.               All travellers who opt to stay at their place of
residence for SHN must remain in their declared place of residence at
all times. They will be subject to close monitoring of their
whereabouts, through electronic monitoring as well as physical
spot-checks. Strict enforcement action will be taken against those who
breach the requirements of the SHN or make false declarations. Such
persons will also be required to utilise specially designated transport
services from the checkpoint to their place of residence and to their
respective testing facilities, and bear the costs[2] for these transport
arrangements.
ALL TRAVELLERS TO BEAR COSTS OF STAY AT DEDICATED SHN FACILITIES AND
COVID-19 TREATMENT
6.               The Government has thus far borne the costs of stay at
dedicated SHN facilities and medical bills for COVID-19 treatment for
SCs and PRs who last left Singapore before 27 March 2020. The Government
has also borne the costs of COVID-19 medical bills for new SCs/ PRs/
Long-Term Pass Holders (LTPHs), and existing LTPHs who departed
Singapore before 27 March 2020. All other incoming travellers have had
to pay for these costs as part of their private expenses, subject to the
applicable healthcare arrangements for their bills[3].
7.               Stay in self-isolation facilities is now a
widely-accepted requirement of international travel in a COVID-19 world.
The vast majority of SCs and PRs who last left Singapore within the past
year have returned. Hence with effect from 1 JANUARY 2021, we will no
longer waive the costs of stay at dedicated SHN facilities for SCs and
PRs who last left Singapore before 27 March 2020.
 8.               Similarly, with effect from 1 JANUARY 2021, all
returning SC/ PR/ LTPH travellers who last left Singapore before 27
March 2020, as well as new SCs/ PRs/ LTPHs will also be responsible for
their inpatient medical bills, should they develop onset of symptoms
within 14 days of their arrival in Singapore, but they will be able to
tap on regular healthcare financial arrangements for their inpatient
medical bills – SCs and PRs may access Government subsidies and
MediShield Life / Integrated Shield Plan to help pay for their bills,
while LTPHs may tap on their usual financing arrangements, such as
private insurance.
REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES
9.               Singapore’s border measures will evolve as the global
situation changes. We will continue to monitor the global health
situation closely and update our border measures in accordance with the
public health risk assessment. If the situation in a country/region
deteriorates, more stringent measures will be put in place to limit the
risk of importation and prevent community transmission from imported
cases.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
27 OCTOBER 2020

[1] As of 27 October 2020. Please refer to the Safe Travel Office
Website for updates to the countries/regions identified
[2] Transport is estimated to cost about $200-220 in total for travel
from checkpoint to place of residence and roundtrip for COVID-19 test
before end of SHN.
[3] SC/PR/LTPH who departed Singapore from 27 March 2020 are responsible
for their medical bills if they develop onset of symptoms for COVID-19
within 14 days of their return to Singapore, but are subject to regular
healthcare arrangements for their bills. All Short-Term Visit Pass
(STVP) holders are responsible for their medical bills at unsubsidised
rates throughout their stay in Singapore, should they test positive for
COVID-19.

