324 More Cases Discharged, 136 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



324 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 136 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 05 Jul 2020

1.     As of 5 July 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 136 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 7 (4 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 2 Long-Term
    Visit Pass holders, 1 Dependant’s Pass holder)

    Amongst the 7 imported cases, 5 returned to Singapore from India on
    23 June (Cases 44707, 44708, 44761 and 44725) and 20 June (Case
    44721). The remaining 2 cases (Cases 44834 and 44835) returned to
    Singapore from Yemen on 24 June. All of them had been  placed on
    14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and had
    been tested while serving their SHN.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 18 (6 Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents, 2
    Work Pass holders, 10 Work Permit holders)



    10 of the community cases today are linked to previous cases or
    clusters. Amongst them, 5 (Cases 44726, 44746, 44836, 44702 and
    44799) had been identified as contacts of previously confirmed
    cases, and had been tested during their quarantine. Another 4 cases
    (Cases 44778, 44781, 44783 and 44785), comprising 2 pairs of
    housemates, were detected as part of our proactive screening of
    workers in essential services, even though they are all
    asymptomatic. They could have past infections, but as a
    precautionary measure, all others staying in the same residences
    will be placed on quarantine. The remaining case (Case 44814) was
    tested after having symptoms. He was a colleague of an earlier case
    (Case 44562) but they were working in different sections of the
    company. MOH is investigating the possible exposures and links, and
    will take appropriate action to prevent further transmission.

    8 of the community cases are currently unlinked. Of these, 5 cases
    (Cases 44780, 44782, 44784, 44786 and 44787) are asymptomatic, and
    were picked up as a result of our proactive testing as they work in
    essential services. The remaining 3 cases (Cases 44713, 44714 and
    44727) had been tested under our enhanced community testing to test
    all individuals aged 13 and above who are diagnosed with acute
    respiratory infection at first presentation to a doctor from 1 July.
    This allows us to detect infected individuals early and to quickly
    contain further spread, as well as milder cases that have a short
    duration of infection. Epidemiological investigation are in progress
    for these cases.

    Besides the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, we also conducted
    serological tests to determine if some of these cases are current or
    past infections. [1] The serological test results for Cases 44702
    and 44799 were positive, which indicate likely past infections. The
    test results for the remaining cases are pending.

    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased,
    from an average of 7 cases per day in the week before, to an average
    of 10 per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the
    community has also increased, from an average of 3 cases per day in
    the week before, to an average of 5 per day in the past week. We
    will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
    detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  Cases residing in dormitories: 111

We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.



2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 93% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

4.     The Inter-Agency Task Force has been systematically and
progressively clearing dormitories through aggressive testing of migrant
workers residing in dormitories. Jurong Apartments (553 Upper Jurong
Road), Seatown Dormitory (69H Tuas South Avenue 1) and the dormitories
at 566 Woodlands Road and 143 Tuas View Square have been cleared, and
now house only recovered individuals and those who have recently tested
negative for COVID-19 infection. As such, the clusters have now been
closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.     In the past week (28 June to 4 July), MOH has uncovered links for
10 previously unlinked cases.

6.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.     324 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 40,441 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.     There are currently 212 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 4,121 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 26 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely to have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.
