No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 26 Dec 2020

1.     As of 26 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 10 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. All new cases today are asymptomatic, and were detected
from our proactive screening and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

10



10

0



0

10

TOTAL

10















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with a total of 1 case in the past week who is currently unlinked.
We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 10

Amongst the 10 imported cases, 2 (Cases 58756 and 58760) are
Singaporeans who returned from the UK. Another 2 (Cases 58750 and 58751)
are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh and India. In
addition, there are 3 (Cases 58752, 58753 and 58759) Dependant’s Pass
holders who arrived from India. The remaining cases are Short-Term Visit
Pass holders. Cases 58754 and 58758 are relatives of Singaporeans who
arrived from Qatar and India respectively. Case 58757 is a caregiver to
an individual who was already receiving medical care in Singapore and
had returned for further treatment. They had all already been placed on
SHN or isolated upon arrival in Singapore and were tested while serving
SHN or under isolation.

Case 58754 served SHN at Mandarin Orchard Singapore before he was
transferred to another dedicated facility on 20 December when MOH
commenced investigations into 13 previously reported cases who had
served SHN at Mandarin Orchard Singapore between 22 October and 11
November 2020. He was swabbed on 19 December and 21 December and his
test results were negative for COVID-19 infection. His swab on 24
December at the end of SHN came back positive, and his serological test
result is negative. Investigations are ongoing to assess if he could be
linked to the 13 cases.

3.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5.     10 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,362 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 37 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 91 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.
