Meeting with Religious Leaders on COVID-19

Meeting with Religious Leaders on COVID-19
==========================================

Published Date: 17 Feb 2020

            Minister for Health Mr Gan Kim Yong, Minister for Culture,
Community & Youth Ms Grace Fu and Minister for Education Mr Ong Ye Kung
met with Buddhist, Taoist, Sikh and Hindu religious leaders today to
update them on the COVID-19 situation, and to provide guidance on
precautionary measures that can be taken to reduce the risk of
transmission of the virus.

2.            The Ministry of Health (MOH) advises that religious events
and worship at temples may continue, but with appropriate precautionary
measures and enhanced emphasis on personal hygiene practices to reduce
the risk of transmission.

3.            The Ministers thanked the religious leaders for their
understanding and support. Many of the religious leaders shared at the
meeting that they have already put in place several measures to protect
their worshippers.

4.            The Ministers highlighted the role of social
responsibility in reducing the risk of transmission. Those who are
unwell, including worshippers, volunteers and staff, should consult a
doctor immediately and avoid going to religious events or places of
worship. This includes having mild symptoms such as cough, sore throat
and runny nose, as not all cases of COVID-19 infection had a fever at
onset of symptoms. 

5.            MOH shared additional measures that can be adopted,
including reminding worshippers not to attend religious events if they
have recent travel history to mainland China in the last 14 days, or are
under leave of absence, increasing the frequency of cleaning of commonly
used areas, and minimising sharing of common items where possible. There
should also be good ventilation at venues where large events are held.

6.            The most effective method to prevent transmission remains
through good personal hygiene of regular hand washing with soap and
water, and to avoid touching our face unnecessarily.
