No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 12 Nov 2020

1.     As of 12 November 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 11 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 9 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

11



11

0



2

9

TOTAL

11















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with a total of 1 case in the past week, which is currently
unlinked. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 11

Amongst the 11 imported cases, 1 (Case 58293) is a Singaporean who
returned from the UAE and 3 (Cases 58284, 58287 and 58288) are Singapore
Permanent Residents who returned from Bahrain and India. Another 4 are
currently employed in Singapore. Of these, 2 (Cases 58282 and 58283) are
Work Pass holders who arrived from Nepal, and 2 (Cases 58286 and 58291)
are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia. The remaining cases
are a Dependant’s Pass holder (Case 58292) who arrived from Pakistan,
and 2 Short-Term Visit Pass holders (Cases 58281 and 58285) who arrived
from Indonesia and Myanmar to visit their family members in Singapore.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN.

3.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
4.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5.     12 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,002 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 48 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 24 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.

