Links established between Church Clusters and Wuhan Travellers

Links established between Church Clusters and Wuhan Travellers
==============================================================

Published Date: 25 Feb 2020

              The Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed that the
locally transmitted COVID-19 infection cluster at Grace Assembly of God
is linked to the cluster at The Life Church and Missions Singapore,
where two travellers from Wuhan had visited and were likely to be the
source of infection. This linkage was established with the assistance of
the Singapore Police Force.\
\
**Uncovering the index case at Grace Assembly of God cluster\
\
**2.            Through detailed epidemiological investigation, MOH has
determined that Case 66^\[1\]^ was the primary case of this cluster, and
that transmission to church members first occurred through staff
meetings at the church’s Tanglin branch (355 Tanglin Road).\
\
3.           Case 66 had reported onset of symptoms on 29 January – the
earliest in the cluster – and had gone to work at Grace Assembly of God
while symptomatic. Sixteen cases^\[2\]^ in the church were subsequently
infected with COVID-19. Some were initially exposed to Case 66 at a
staff meeting and subsequently infected other church members.\
\
**Establishing the links between the church clusters and source of
infection\
\
**4.           To determine how Case 66 had been infected, we
investigated the locations he had visited, and people he had close
contact with. We found that Case 66 had attended a Chinese New Year
gathering at Mei Hwan Drive on 25 January. Cases 83 and 91 had also
attended the same gathering. Hence there is a possible link between the
cluster at Grace Assembly of God and the Chinese New Year gathering at
Mei Hwan Drive.\
\
5.          Cases 83 and 91 are a married couple, and they were both not
sick (i.e. they had no symptoms) at the time of investigations. But
MOH’s records showed that Case 91 had gone to the emergency department
at Sengkang General Hospital earlier on 26 January with symptoms
consistent with COVID-19. Case 83 had also been unwell in end-January,
and had repeatedly sought treatment at a general practitioner clinic.\
\
6.           Based on this finding, the MOH epidemiology team arranged
for Cases 83 and 91 to be tested at the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases, including the use of serological tests developed by
researchers from the Duke-NUS Medical School. Their test results
confirmed that they had earlier been infected with COVID-19.\
\
7.            Our investigations had earlier uncovered that Cases 83 and
91 were at The Life Church and Missions Singapore on the same day as
Cases 8 and 9 – the Chinese nationals from Wuhan who had visited the
church on 19 January. This meant that Cases 83 and 91 likely got
infected from Cases 8 and 9, and went on to pass the infection to Case
66 at the Chinese New Year gathering on 25 January. Case 66 subsequently
passed the infection to his colleagues at Grace Assembly of God.\
\
**A world-first in serological testing\
\
**8.            The laboratory test currently used to confirm COVID-19
infection is a molecular test called Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR),
which detects the presence of viral genetic material in a biological
sample obtained from a patient. This test will not work if the patient
has recovered and his body’s immune system has cleared the virus.
However, the immune system produces antibodies in response to the
infection. These virus specific antibodies will stay with the recovered
patient for longer periods of time, which could be for at least several
years.\
\
9.            The research team at Duke-NUS Medical School had earlier
successfully cultured the COVID-19 virus in less than a week after
Singapore confirmed its first COVID-19 case. Using the virus and genetic
material derived from the virus, the research team had then rapidly
developed several specific laboratory tests to detect the virus-specific
antibodies for contact tracing and other applications.\
\
10.           Using two different antibody testing platforms (virus
neutralisation assay and ELISA assay), the team at Duke-NUS Medical
School proved that the two suspect Cases 83 and 91 were indeed infected
with COVID-19 in late January 2020, as they had very high levels of the
virus-specific antibodies in their blood. This result was a significant
piece of evidence which confirmed the links between the church clusters
and the two Wuhan travellers.\
\
**Close collaboration between stakeholders\
\
**11.           To understand how the transmission likely occurred
across the different cases, MOH and the Police had extensively analysed
the activity maps of the confirmed cases, and interviewed them as well
as their close contacts. With the discovery of the links between the two
church clusters to the travellers from Wuhan, we have now determined the
likely source of infection for a large majority of the locally
transmitted cases. All this was achieved through close collaboration
between the contact tracing and epidemiological teams in MOH, the Police
and researchers at Duke-NUS Medical School.

<div>

\

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div id="ftn1">

^\[1\]^ Case 66 is a 28 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent
travel history to China who was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
14 February.\
^\[2\]^ Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 67, 73, 74, 78
and 81.   \
\
[ANNEX]{style="text-decoration: underline;"}\
\
[![Links between Church Clusters and Wuhan
Travellers](/images/librariesprovider5/press-room/links-between-church-clusters-and-wuhan-travellers.jpg?sfvrsn=d3082570_0 "Links between Church Clusters and Wuhan Travellers")](/images/librariesprovider5/press-room/links-between-church-clusters-and-wuhan-travellers.jpg?sfvrsn=d3082570_0)\

</div>

</div>
