Joint Press Statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the
Ministry of Health: Singapore's Contribution to the Covid-19 Vaccine
Global Access Advance Market Commitment



JOINT PRESS STATEMENT BY THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH: SINGAPORE'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE COVID-19 VACCINE GLOBAL ACCESS ADVANCE MARKET COMMITMENT


Published Date: 04 Dec 2020

         The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on public
health, society and the economy both at home and abroad. The virus does
not respect borders, and no one is safe until everyone is safe. The
successful development of safe and efficacious vaccines is a critical
step towards overcoming the pandemic.

         Global solidarity is required for an effective international
response to the pandemic. As part of our consistent support for vaccine
multilateralism, and the fair and equitable access and allocation of
vaccines, Singapore will contribute US$5,000,000 to the COVID-19 Vaccine
Global Access (COVAX) Advance Market Commitment (AMC) mechanism, which
will help support 92 low- and lower-middle-income countries’ access to
COVID-19 vaccines through the COVAX Facility¹. AMC eligible countries
include several ASEAN countries as well as small states globally.
         Singapore will continue to work closely with our international
partners, in particular, the United Nations, the World Health
Organisation, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the Coalition for Epidemic
Preparedness Innovations to advance vaccine multilateralism and forge a
global response to this pandemic.

¹ The COVAX Facility is a global risk-sharing mechanism which seeks to
procure, equitably allocate and deliver 2 billion doses of COVID-19
vaccines by the end of 2021. Singapore is one of 97 self-financing
participants (as of 25 November 2020) in the Facility. The Facility’s
implementing partners are the World Health Organisation, Gavi, the
Vaccine Alliance and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
Innovations. Singapore and Switzerland co-chair the Friends of the COVAX
Facility to support the work of this Facility.
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MINISTRY OF HEALTH

4 DECEMBER 2020


