1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 09 Oct 2020

1.     As of 9 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 1 new case of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection who resides in a dormitory. There are no cases in the
community. In addition, there are 9 imported cases, who had all been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival. All cases
today are asymptomatic and were detected from our proactive screening
and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



1

0



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

9



9

0



0

9

TOTAL

10















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
stable at an average of 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable at an
average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.

3.     All the new cases today are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no new cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory who had been identified earlier
as a contact of previous cases, and had already been quarantined to
prevent further transmission. He was tested during quarantine to
determine his status.

There are no new cases detected in purpose-built dormitories for the
first time since 28 March 2020.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 9

Amongst the 9 imported cases, 1 (Case 58006) is a Singapore Permanent
Resident who returned from the Philippines. Another 6 cases are
currently employed in Singapore. They had all been placed on 14-day SHN
upon arrival in Singapore, and were tested while serving SHN at
dedicated facilities even though all of them are asymptomatic.

The remaining 2 (Cases 58003 and 58004) are crew members of a ship which
arrived in Singapore from Malaysia on 23 September. They had remained on
the ship until they were transferred to a quarantine facility. They were
swabbed during quarantine to determine their status, even though they
are asymptomatic.

4.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the cluster at
Cochrane Lodge I (51 Admiralty Road West) for the past two incubation
periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

7.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex A and Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.     7 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,675 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

9.     There are currently 37 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 120 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
