No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 02 Nov 2020

As of 2 November 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are no new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. There is 1 imported case, who had been placed on Stay-Home
Notice upon arrival in Singapore. The case is asymptomatic, and was
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

1



1

0



0

1

TOTAL

1















2.            Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained low, with a total of 2 cases in the past week. Both cases are
currently unlinked. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers,
as well as the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 1

There is 1 imported case today. Case 58199 is a Work Pass holder
currently employed in Singapore who arrived from the Philippines. She
had been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and was tested while
serving SHN.

3.            Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

4.              Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the case have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.

5.              MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any
further transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the
cluster at Homestay Lodge (39 Kaki Bukit Avenue 3) for the past two
incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

6.             Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
Please refer to Annex A and Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.                No new cases of COVID-19 infection have been
discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all,
57,924 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged
from hospitals or community care facilities.

8.              There are currently 46 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 22 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
