No New Cases of Locally-transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY-TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 23 Nov 2020

1.     As of 23 November 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 5 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. All new cases today are asymptomatic, and were detected
from our proactive screening and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

5



5

0



0

5

TOTAL

5















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with no new cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 5

Amongst the 5 imported cases, 1 (Case 58369) is a Singaporean who
returned from India. Another 3 (Cases 58370, 58371 and 58372) are Work
Permit holders currently employed in Singapore who arrived from
Indonesia. The remaining case (Case 58368), a Short-Term Visit Pass
holder who arrived from France, is an engineer on a work project in
Singapore. They had already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore and were tested while serving SHN.

3.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

4.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5.     4 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,071 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 36 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 30 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

