<html>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <title>Four more cases discharged; seventeen new cases of COVID-19 infection confirmed</title>
    <body><h1>Four more cases discharged; seventeen new cases of COVID-19 infection confirmed</h1>
    <p>Published Date: 16 Mar 2020</p> 1. Four more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from hospital (Cases 99, 100, 149 and 189). In all, 109 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital. 
<br>
<br>2.	As of 16 March 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed and verified 17 more cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore. Of these:
<br>
<br>•	11 are imported cases (Cases 227, 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 238, 239, 240, 241 and 243); and 
<br>•	Four are linked to previous cases (Case 236 is linked to Cases 142, 211 and 219; Case 242 is linked to Case 166; Case 235 is linked to Case 208; and Case 237 is linked to Case 225); and
<br>•	Two are currently unlinked (Cases 228 and 234).
<br>
<br><strong>Links between previous cases found
</strong><br>
<br>3.	Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. This was made possible with the assistance of the Singapore Police Force.
<br>
<br>a)	Eight of the locally transmitted confirmed cases (Cases 31, 33, 38, 83, 90, 91, 138 and 151), as well as Cases 8 and 9, are linked to The Life Church and Missions Singapore. These cases are linked to another 23 confirmed cases (Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 73, 74, 78, 80, 81, 84, 88) who are linked to the Grace Assembly of God. 
<br>
<br>b)	14 of the confirmed cases (Cases 93, 95, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 108 and 110) are linked to Wizlearn Technologies Pte Ltd.
<br>
<br>c)	47 of the confirmed cases (Cases 94, 96, 107, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121, 122, 125, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 137, 139, 140, 142, 144, 145, 146, 148, 149, 150, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 164, 166, 174, 179, 185, 186, 196, 201, 218 and 224) are linked to a private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong on 15 February. Two (Cases 142 and 144) are linked to the clusters at boulder+ Gym and Church of Singapore (Bukit Timah).
<br>
<br>i.	Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 142, 162 and 163) are linked to boulder+ Gym (12 Kallang Avenue).
<br>
<br>ii.	Four of the confirmed cases (Cases 144, 208, 214 and 235) are linked to the Church of Singapore (Bukit Timah) (2B Hindhede Road). 
<br>
<br>4.	Investigations on these clusters are ongoing. In addition to the clusters, our investigations have identified the following links between cases:
<br>
<br>•	Case 72 is linked to Cases 59 and 79; 
<br>•	Case 86 is linked to Case 82;
<br>•	Case 126 is linked to Case 109; 
<br>•	Case 143 is linked to Case 132; 
<br>•	Case 167 is linked to Case 178; 
<br>•	Case 190 is linked to Cases 172 and 184; 
<br>•	Case 200 is linked to Case 165; 
<br>•	Case 219 is linked to Cases 142, 211 and 236; and
<br>•	Case 221 is linked to Case 204.
<br>
<br>5.	Contact tracing is underway for the other 12 locally transmitted cases to establish any links to previous cases or travel history to affected countries or regions.
<br>
<br><strong>About the confirmed cases 
</strong><br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 227
</span><br>
<br>6.	Case 227 is an imported case involving a 53 year-old male Singapore Citizen who had been in France from 7 March to 12 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the National University Hospital (NUH).
<br>
<br>7.	He reported onset of symptoms on 11 March while in France, and had presented at the emergency department of NUH on 14 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March afternoon.
<br>
<br>8.	He is a staff of Lighthouse Evangelism Church (Tampines Street 82) but had not gone to work since onset of symptoms. He stays at Pasir Panjang Road.
<br>
<span style="text-decoration: underline;"><br>Case 228
</span><br>
<br>9.	Case 228 is a 67 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. He is currently warded in an isolation room at Changi General Hospital (CGH). 
<br>
<br>10.	He reported onset of symptoms on 3 March, and had sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic and Bedok Polyclinic on 3 March, 11 March and 13 March. He presented at the emergency department of CGH on 13 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March afternoon. 
<br>
<br>11.	Prior to hospital admission, he mostly stayed at his home at Sea Breeze Avenue except to seek medical treatment. 
<br>
<br> <br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 229
</span><br>
<br>12.	Case 229 is an imported case involving a 26 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who had been in Spain from 14 February to 14 March. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NUH. She is a family member of Case 240. 
<br>
<br>13.	She reported onset of symptoms on 15 March, and had sought treatment at a GP clinic on the same day. She presented at NCID on 15 March, and subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March afternoon. 
<br>
<br>14.	She stays at Kim Keat Road. 
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 230
</span><br>
<br>15.	Case 230 is an imported case involving a 38 year-old female Singapore Citizen who had been in Eastern Europe from 3 March to 14 March. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).
<br>
<br>16.	She reported onset of symptoms on 14 March, and presented at NCID on 15 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March afternoon. 
<br>
<br>17.	She is employed as an adjunct teaching staff at Republic Polytechnic and Singapore Polytechnic, but had not gone to work since onset of symptoms. She stays at Ewe Boon Road.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 231 
</span><br>
<br>18.	Case 231 is an imported case involving a 78 year-old male Australian national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and had been in the United States from 23 February to 14 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the Singapore General Hospital (SGH). He is a family member of Case 232.
<br>
<br>19.	He reported onset of symptoms on 4 March. He presented at the emergency department of SGH on 14 March, and subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March afternoon.
<br>
<br>20.	He stays in the Robertson Quay area.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 232
</span><br>
<br>21.	Case 232 is an imported case involving a 65 year-old female Australian national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and had been in the United States from 23 February to 14 March. She is currently warded in an isolation room at SGH. She is a family member of Case 231. 
<br>
<br>22.	She reported an onset of symptoms on 2 March while in the United States. She presented at the emergency department of SGH on 14 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March afternoon. 
<br>
<br>23.	She stays in the Robertson Quay area. 
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 233
</span><br>
<br>24.	Case 233 is an imported case involving a 61 year-old male British national who is a Singapore Long Term Pass holder, and had been in the United Kingdom from 6 March to 14 March. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 234</span>
<br>
<br>25.	Case 234 is an 86 year-old male Singapore Citizen who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at SGH. 
<br>
<br>Case 235
<br>
<br>26.	Case 235 is a 31 year-old female Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning and is currently warded in an isolation room at SGH. She is employed as a Medical Social Worker at SGH, and is linked to Case 208<sup>1</sup>.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 236
</span><br>
<br>27.	Case 236 is a 30 year-old female Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is a family member of Case 219, and is linked to Case 142<sup>2</sup>.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 237
</span><br>
<br>28.	Case 237 is a 36 year-old female Indonesian national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is linked to Case 225.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 238
</span><br>
<br>29.	Case 238 is an imported case involving a 83 year-old female Belgium national who arrived in Singapore on 6 March. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 239
</span><br>
<br>30.	Case 239 is an imported case involving a 28 year-old male British national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and had been in France from 7 March to 14 March. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 240
</span><br>
<br>31.	Case 240 is an imported case involving a 27 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident, who had been in Spain from 7 March to 14 March. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NUH. He is linked to Case 229.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 241
</span><br>
<br>32.	Case 241 is an imported case involving a 28 year-old male British national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and had been in France from 7 March to 14 March. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 242
</span><br>
<br>33.	Case 242 is a 64 year-old female Singapore Citizen who had been in Malaysia on 7 March and 8 March. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is a contact of Case 166<sup>3</sup>.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 243
</span><br>
<br>34.	Case 243 is an imported case involving a 36 year-old male Singapore Citizen who had been in Germany from 26 February to 29 February, Italy from 29 February to 7 March and Switzerland from 7 March to 14 March. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 March morning, and is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 219 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>35.	Case 219 is a 30 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. He is currently warded in an isolation room at Sengkang General Hospital (SKH). He is a family member of Case 236, and is linked to Cases 142<sup>4</sup>  and 211.	
<br>
<br>36.	He reported onset of symptoms on 13 March, and had presented at the emergency department of SKH on the same day. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning. 
<br>
<br>37.	Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at Sengkang Fire Station (50 Buangkok Drive) as a Singapore Civil Defence Force officer, and visited Meiban Mold Manufacture Pte Ltd (26 Ang Mo Kio Industrial Park 2) and Furama Riverfront (405 Havelock Road). He stays at Bishan Street 22. 
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 220 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>38.	Case 220 is an imported case involving a 53 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who had been in France from 10 March to 12 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room in NCID.  
<br>
<br>39.	He reported onset of symptoms on 12 March while in France, and presented at NCID on 14 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning.
<br>
<br>40.	He is a teaching staff at INSEAD Asia Campus (1 Ayer Rajah Avenue), but had not gone to work since onset of symptoms. He stays at Dover Rise. 
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 221 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>41.	Case 221 is a 28 year-old female Filipino national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions. She is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. She is a contact of Case 204<sup>5</sup>. 
<br>
<br>42.	She reported onset of symptoms on 11 March. As she had been identified as a contact of Case 204, she was referred by MOH to NCID on 14 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning.
<br>
<br>43.	Prior to hospital admission, she had gone to work as a teaching staff at MY World Preschool Ltd (52 Lengkok Bahru), and had been on course at Training Masters Workforce Institute (10 Arumugam Road). She also visited OUE Downtown Gallery (6A Shenton Way). She stays at Tanjong Pagar Road. 
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 222 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>44.	Case 222 is an imported case involving a 41 year-old male French national who is a Singapore Work Pass holder, and had been to France from 28 February to 7 March and 9 March to 10 March, Spain from 7 March to 9 March, and the Philippines from 12 March to 13 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
<br>
<br>45.	He reported onset of symptoms on 13 March, and had sought treatment at a GP clinic on 14 March. He was referred to NCID on the same day. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning.
<br>
<br>46.	Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to work at Airbus Singapore Pte Ltd (12 Seletar Aerospace Link). He stays in the Kensington Park Road area.
<br>
 <span style="text-decoration: underline;">
<br>Case 223 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>47.	Case 223 is an imported case involving a 60 year-old male Singapore Citizen, and had been in the United States from 28 February to 7 March and Australia from 7 to 13 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
<br>
<br>48.	He reported onset of symptoms on 13 March and had sought treatment at a GP clinic on 14 March. He was referred to NCID on the same day. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning.
<br>
<br>49.	Prior to hospital admission, he mostly stayed at his home at Serangoon Garden Terrace.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 224 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>50.	Case 224 is a 50 year-old male Singapore Citizen, who had been in Malaysia from 1 March to 4 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is a contact of Case 117<sup>6</sup>  and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.
<br>
<br>51.	As he had been identified as a contact of Case 117, he was placed under quarantine since 5 March. He reported onset of symptoms on 13 March and was conveyed by ambulance to NCID on 14 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning.
<br>
<br>52.	He stays at Senja Road.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 225 (Announced on 15 March)</span>
<br>
<br>53.	Case 225 is an imported case involving a 63 year-old male Singapore Citizen, who had been in Indonesia from 3 March to 7 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. He is linked to Case 237.
<br>
<br>54.	He reported onset of symptoms on 9 March and had sought treatment at Mount Elizabeth Hospital on 12 March. He was referred to NCID on 14 March. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning.
<br>
<br>55.	He stays at Newton Road.
<br>
<br><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Case 226 (Announced on 15 March)
</span><br>
<br>56.	Case 226 is an imported case involving a 49 year-old male Dutch national who had been in the Netherlands from 29 February to 13 March. He is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID. 
<br>
<br>57.	He reported onset of symptoms on 12 March while he was in the Netherlands and had sought treatment at the emergency department of Gleneagles Hospital on 14 March. He was referred to NCID on the same day. Subsequent test results confirmed COVID-19 infection on 15 March morning. 
<br>
<br>58.	He stays in the Sixth Avenue area. 
<br>
<br><strong>Update on condition of confirmed cases
</strong><br>
<br>59.	To date, a total of 109 cases have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 134 confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving. 13 are in critical condition in the intensive care unit. 
<br>
<br><strong>Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases 
</strong><br>
<br>60.	Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance, and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status. 
<br>
<br>61.	As of 16 March 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 5,711 close contacts who have been quarantined. Of these, 1,951 are currently quarantined, and 3,760 have completed their quarantine. 
<br>
<br><strong>Health advisory
</strong><br>
<br>62.	Singaporeans are advised to defer all non-essential travel abroad. 
<br>
<br>63.	All travellers should monitor their health closely for two weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough, shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead of the visit.
<br>
<br>64.	Travellers and members of the public should adopt the following precautions at all times: 
<br>
<br>•	Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms of illness; 
<br>•	Observe good personal hygiene; 
<br>•	Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing); 
<br>•	Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or shortness of breath; 
<br>•	Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and 
<br>•	Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.
<br>
<br>65.	MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases, Singapore is likely to see more cases that will need to be investigated. 
<br>
<br>
<br><strong>MINISTRY OF HEALTH
<br>16 MARCH 2020
<br><br></strong>[1] Case 208 is a 26 year-old female Singapore Citizen who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions, and was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14 March. She is a Medical Social Worker at SGH. <br><br>[2] Case 142 is a 26 year-old male Singapore Citizen who was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 7 March. He is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.<br><br>[3] Case 166 is a 55 year-old female Singapore Citizen who has no recent travel history to affected countries and regions, and was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10 March. She is a contact of Case 134, and is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.<br><br>[4] Case 142 is a 26 year-old male Singapore Citizen who was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 7 March. He is linked to the cluster involving the private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong. <br><br>[5] Case 204 is an imported case involving a 32 year-old male American national who had been in Japan from 29 February to 8 March. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 March.<br><br>[6] Case 117 is a 52 year-old female Singapore Citizen who was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 5 March. She is linked to the cluster involving a private dinner function at SAFRA Jurong.</body>
</html>