1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 29 Nov 2020

  As of 29 November 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there is 1 new case of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The case is in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 7 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 5 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 3 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES








BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



0

1



0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

7



7

0



3

4

TOTAL

8













2.       Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with a total of 3 cases in the past week who are currently
unlinked. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.



CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58424 is a Work Permit holder from India who works as a warehouse
assistant. He is asymptomatic, and was detected from our community
surveillance testing of stallholders in and around Tekka Centre on 26
November.

He was conveyed to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases when his
test came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 27 November. His
serological test result is also positive, which indicates likely past
infection.

His work entails stocktaking at warehouses located at Cuff Road, and
delivery of goods to Jothi Store and Flower Shop (1 Campbell Lane). He
does not interact with customers at the store. He usually works with a
warehouse assistant at the warehouses, who was also swabbed on 26
November and has tested negative for COVID-19 infection. He resides at
Cuff Road with 2 other migrant workers, who have both similarly tested
negative for COVID-19 infection.

Community surveillance testing enables us to contain cryptic cases in
the community early, and prevent further transmission. In all, 876
individuals were tested during the community surveillance testing of
stallholders in and around Tekka Centre on 26 November. Of these, 2
(Cases 58412 and 58424) were tested positive for COVID-19 infection.
Both cases are likely to be past infections, as indicated by their
positive serological test results. The remaining 874 individuals have
tested negative for the virus.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases, 1 (Case 58416) is a Long-Term Visit Pass
holder who arrived from Russia and another (Case 58421) is a Student’s
Pass holder who arrived from India. Another 3 (Cases 58417, 58422 and
58423) are Work Permit holders currently employed in Singapore who
arrived from Indonesia. The remaining cases are Short-Term Visit Pass
holders. Case 58418 is an engineer who arrived from Malta on a work
project in Singapore, and Case 58419 arrived from Belarus to participate
in a mixed martial arts sporting event as a cornerman. They had all
already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

3.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

4.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.  5 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,124 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

6.  There are currently 31 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 29 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
29 NOVEMBER 2020
