Continued Vigilance Needed With Reopening



CONTINUED VIGILANCE NEEDED WITH REOPENING


Published Date: 02 Jul 2020

                As we resume more of our economic and social activities,
we must continue to stay vigilant and uphold safe distancing measures.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) has stepped up surveillance and contact
tracing of the community cases in June. These have been cases that were
identified through our expanded testing strategy including regular
surveillance testing in higher risk settings, and also testing of those
diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first presentation
to a doctor. Once a case is detected, MOH will quickly identify all
potential close contacts, and test and isolate individuals to protect
the community from further transmission. But we will also need everyone
to do their part to help control the spread of the infection.
CLOSELY MONITORING AND AGGRESSIVE RING-FENCING OF COMMUNITY CASES
2.           In the past week, we have seen an average of 8 new
community cases a day, of which an average of 4 cases a day are
unlinked. This is an increase from around 5 community cases a day in the
last week of Phase One, with about 2 a day being unlinked.
3.           Many of these cases are picked up from our expanded testing
strategy, where we test more extensively among key population groups in
the community.
  a.  We carry out active surveillance of population groups who are
deemed vulnerable or who have a higher risk of exposure to COVID-19.
These include workers in the construction, marine and process sectors,
and frontline workers supporting our COVID-19 operations.
  b.  As we re-open our borders and to facilitate travel, we have
started testing incoming travellers before the end of their Stay-Home
Notice period.
  c.  We have also expanded our strategy to test all individuals aged 13
and above who are diagnosed with ARI at first presentation to a doctor.
4.           Once cases are identified, MOH will utilise a combination
of technology tools such as TraceTogether and SafeEntry, as well as
professional judgment, to contact trace rapidly and quarantine close
contacts. Over time, our speed to isolation has improved, and the
average time taken between identification of case to the issuance of a
quarantine order to close contacts is now less than a day. To ring-fence
and prevent further spread, we also test all close contacts of confirmed
COVID-19 cases in the community, at the start and end of their
quarantine period.
MANAGEMENT OF CASES AT 111 TAMPINES STREET 11
5.           Our early detection and aggressive case finding efforts
have helped us to quickly pick up and ring-fence cases. One example is
our management of the cases at Block 111 Tampines Street 11. As part of
our proactive screening of COVID-19 frontline workers, MOH picked up a
positive case on 23 June involving a 66-year-old Singaporean male[1] who
works at a dormitory which is a known cluster. Six of his household
members[2] were subsequently tested positive for COVID-19 as part of
contact tracing. Separately, on 27 June, a 15 year-old female
Singaporean[3] residing in the same block reported sick and was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection after testing. One of her household
members[4] also tested positive for COVID-19 as part of contact tracing.
6.           Epidemiological investigations are ongoing to establish if
the cases across these two households are linked. However, as a
precautionary measure, MOH has placed the 58 households residing within
the same section of the block as the two households with confirmed cases
under active phone surveillance and is facilitating COVID-19 testing for
them and their visitors. Other households within the same block do not
need to be tested as they do not share the same set of lifts and
stairwell.
7.           Thus far, MOH has contacted 160 individuals, comprising
residents and visitors of the affected households, and have facilitated
testing for them at a nearby clinic. Of the 60 individuals who have been
tested, so far all have been found to be negative for COVID-19.
8.           As these households and visitors are not close contacts of
the confirmed cases, they are assessed to have a low risk of being
infected. They are therefore not placed on quarantine but put under
active phone surveillance as a precautionary measure. They will be
contacted daily by MOH to monitor their health status, for up to 14
days, till 12 July. Identified residents can continue their essential
daily activities if they are well, including going to work or school,
but are encouraged to minimise non-essential activities especially while
awaiting their COVID-19 test results. They are advised to monitor their
health. Should they develop acute respiratory infection symptoms, they
should seek immediate medical attention at nearby Public Health
Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) or polyclinics.
9.           In addition to our testing and contact tracing efforts, the
Town Council has also taken steps to clean and disinfect the common
areas in the entire block.As a further precautionary measure, the Town
Council has also stepped up cleaning and disinfection of surrounding
blocks.
10.          Residents can call MOH at 1800-333-9999 if they have
queries.
STAYING VIGILANT
11.          As we resume more activities under Phase Two, we must
expect the number of cases to increase. We will need to continue to stay
vigilant. The implementation of strong safe management measures, safe
distancing measures and strict infection control measures by everyone is
also key to reducing spread. Individuals should also use the
TraceTogether and SafeEntry applications to facilitate contact tracing,
and quickly see a doctor if they have respiratory symptoms. Together
with everyoneâ€™s collective efforts, we can keep COVID-19 under control
while we progressively resume activities safely.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
2 JULY 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 42616
[2] Cases 42943, 43261, 43263, 43146, 43262 and 44052
[3] Case 43297
[4] Case 44053
