Public Health Travel Advisory in Response to Cases of COVID-19 in
Republic of Korea

Public Health Travel Advisory in Response to Cases of COVID-19 in Republic of Korea
===================================================================================

Published Date: 23 Feb 2020

              In view of the recent increase in the number of confirmed
cases in the Republic of Korea, particularly in Daegu city and Cheongdo
county, the Ministry of Health (MOH) advises travellers to avoid
non-essential travel to Daegu and Cheongdo. MOH also reminds the public
to continue to exercise caution when travelling to the rest of the
Republic of Korea.\
\
2.          As of 23 February 2020, 12pm, the Republic of Korea has
reported 556 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection. These include 306
cases linked to the Shincheonji Church of Jesus in Daegu, and 114 from
Daenam Hospital in Cheongdo. Five cases are currently not linked to any
of the confirmed cases. Daegu and Cheongdo have been designated by the
Republic of Korea government as “special care zones”, and measures have
been put in place in these regions to reduce the risk of further
transmission.

3.          In view of the heightened risk of transmission from
travellers arriving from Daegu and Cheongdo, the Multi-Ministry
Taskforce has assessed that it is prudent to take additional
precautionary measures to limit the potential risk that travellers
arriving from these affected regions pose to Singapore.

4.           From 23 February 2020, the definition of suspect cases will
be expanded to include persons with pneumonia or severe respiratory
infection with breathlessness who had been to Daegu and/or Cheongdo of
the Republic of Korea, within 14 days before onset of symptoms.

5.            Since 29 January, all arriving passengers at Changi
Airport have been subject to temperature screening. From 23 February,
cases meeting the expanded definition above will be referred to
hospitals for further assessment. Officers will also look out for such
travellers with respiratory symptoms at the aerobridges for flights
coming from South Korea and at immigration checks. Travellers with
recent travel history to Daegu and Cheongdo will be asked to identify
themselves.

6.           Health Advisory Notices will be issued to all travellers
arriving at Changi Airport from South Korea to advise travellers on the
precautionary measures to take when travelling to or arriving from the
affected regions.

7.          The previously announced travel advisory for Singaporeans to
defer all travel to Hubei Province and all non-essential travel to
Mainland China remains in place.

8.          MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. Once a
case is confirmed, contact tracing will be initiated, and we will
implement strict isolation, quarantine, and infection control and
prevention measures to prevent further transmission.

**Health Advisory**

9.          All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.

10.         Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:

-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

     

11.          Given the evolving situation and ongoing investigations in
the Republic of Korea, Singapore residents who need to travel to the
affected areas are advised to regularly check MOH’s website
([www.moh.gov.sg](http://www.moh.gov.sg/)) for updates. Travellers to
the Republic of Korea are also advised to stay vigilant, monitor
developments and heed the advice of the local authorities while in the
Republic of Korea.

 
