Additional Precautionary Measures to Protect Our Seniors

Additional Precautionary Measures to Protect Our Seniors
========================================================

Published Date: 10 Mar 2020

[Additional precautionary measures will be put in place to reduce the
risk of further transmission of COVID-19 among
seniors.]{style="text-align: left;"}\

2.            The Ministry of Health (MOH) has studied the pattern of
transmission among recent confirmed cases. It has found that many of the
cases were transmitted during social activities and gatherings among
seniors. For example, many of the confirmed cases over the weekend were
linked to the SAFRA Jurong cluster and other social activities. These
are mainly seniors who took part in singing classes and other activities
such as qigong and line-dancing at several community clubs (CCs) and
residents’ committees (RCs). They are active agers who participate often
in such group activities, joining multiple groups across different
venues in Singapore.

3.            While we encourage seniors to be active, there is now
evidence of COVID-19 transmission among the seniors participating in
such social activities, chiefly because some individuals who were unwell
had continued to participate in them.

4.            The Ministry of Health (MOH) had on 7 March announced
precautionary measures for these groups of seniors. It had called for a
14-day suspension of all activities and classes in CCs and RCs which the
confirmed cases had participated in, as well as all singing classes
organised by the People’s Association (PA) at the affected CCs and RCs.

 

**Suspension of senior-centric activities for 14 days**

5.            Seniors are a particularly vulnerable group. We will
therefore introduce additional targeted social distancing measures for
our seniors. All senior-centric activities conducted by government
agencies will be suspended for 14 days from 11 March to 24 March 2020.
These include activities held at CCs, RCs, Senior Activity Centres,
Active Ageing Hubs, CREST centres, Health Promotion Board and ActiveSG
sport centres.^1^

6.            In the interim, organisers will implement additional
precautionary measures before activities resume. These include reducing
the group size of activities to prevent crowding, re-organising
activities to minimise physical contact, increasing the frequency of
sanitising equipment between activities, providing sufficient facilities
for regular hand washing, and checking if participants are well.

7.            Care services for seniors – such as nursing homes,
inpatient and day hospices, senior care centre services and home-based
care services – will continue to run, but with additional precautionary
measures.

8.            Seniors who feel unwell should see a doctor and stay at
home. Those who are well can continue to go to work, and go about their
daily routine such as marketing and individual exercise in the meantime.
But they should continue to take precautionary measures to keep
themselves safe, such as maintaining good personal hygiene, washing
their hands frequently and avoiding touching their face and eyes.

9.            The Multi-Ministry Taskforce is assessing the situation
locally as well as globally, and is studying a broader range of social
distancing measures we might take to help further slow down the spread
of the virus.

 

**Social responsibility is key**

10.          Social responsibility is a critical factor in slowing the
transmission of the virus. Many of the locally transmitted cases were
the result of the socially irresponsible actions of a few individuals
who attended events and activities despite being unwell.

11.          About 35 of the 160 confirmed cases thus far had not
minimised social contact although they had already developed fever or
respiratory symptoms, or consulted a doctor early when unwell. More than
a fifth (22%) of the confirmed cases continued to work or carried on
with their daily routine despite being sick. For instance:

a)            The cluster at Wizlearn Technologies Pte Ltd had 14
confirmed cases. Of these, nine were staff, and three of them had
continued with their daily activities despite feeling unwell. One staff
also spread the virus to a family contact, who also had carried on with
daily activities while symptomatic. This in turn resulted in an
additional four cases who had not worked at the company.

b)            Of the cases linked to the private dinner function at
SAFRA Jurong, one case who was already unwell had attended the function
on 15 February, and subsequently tested positive. This could have
resulted in 18 additional cases who were also at the dinner and
subsequently tested positive. 10 of these 18 cases continued with daily
activities despite feeling unwell, resulting in an additional 17
positive cases who had not been at the dinner.

12.          We also urge the public to refrain from doctor-hopping so
that the same doctor can follow up with each case, and make the
appropriate assessment if a case needs to be tested for COVID-19. Of the
confirmed cases, 38 (24%) had visited more than one general practitioner
(GP) clinic. Among these 38 patients, eight had visited three or more GP
clinics.

13.          Our ability to carry out effective contact tracing requires
the cooperation of individuals to provide comprehensive and truthful
accounts about their activities when they are interviewed by MOH’s
public health officers. Otherwise our ability to quickly get in contact
with others who may have been infected and to ring-fence clusters will
be delayed.

14.          Socially irresponsible behaviour poses a risk to all. The
measures we have implemented will not work if individuals do not
cooperate, and continue to engage in socially irresponsible behaviour.
We urge all Singaporeans to play their part in the fight against the
virus. Those who are unwell, even with mild flu-like symptoms, should
see a doctor and stay at home to prevent spreading illness to others.

 

**MINISTRY OF HEALTH\
10 MARCH 2020**

^1^ The list of activities which are suspended is in
the [](ea0d11d7-ca94-4348-b78e-cdcc1a530c59 "10 Mar_ANNEX2")[Annex](/docs/librariesprovider5/pressroom/10-mar_annex2.pdf?sfvrsn=7a6e8015_4 "Annex"),
and can be found on PA’s and MyActiveSG’s websites, as well as the
Health Promotion Board’s HealthHub portal or Healthy 365 mobile app.
