Implementation of New Stay-Home Notice

Implementation of New Stay-Home Notice
======================================

Published Date: 17 Feb 2020

<div>

      Since 31 January 2020, we have implemented a 14-day leave of
absence (LOA) for all travellers returning from mainland China (outside
of Hubei) who are Singapore residents or long-term pass holders.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

2.      We took this precautionary measure because travellers from
mainland China might be infected with COVID-19 and to reduce the risk of
community spread of the virus within Singapore. Since introducing the
measure, we have progressively tightened the LOA and stepped up
enforcement. To date, we have not had any confirmed COVID-19 case among
this group of returnees.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

**Need for enhanced measures**

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

3.      The number of confirmed cases in mainland China (outside of
Hubei) has increased from over 4,000 cases on 31 January 2020 to over
12,000 today. 

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

4.      At the same time, there remains a substantial number of
Singapore residents and long-term pass holders in China, including
Singapore Citizens. Many of them are expected to return to Singapore in
the coming weeks, and to their workplaces or schools, after the Chinese
New Year holidays in China. There is a higher chance that returnees
could be carrying the virus.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

**New “Stay-Home Notice”**

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

5.      The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has therefore decided to introduce
a new “Stay-Home Notice” (SHN) for Singapore residents and long-term
pass holders returning to Singapore from mainland China (outside of
Hubei).

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          a.      This SHN will take effect from 18 February 2020, 23:59
hours, and will apply to all returnees with recent travel history to
China (outside Hubei) within the last 14 days. 

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          b.      Under the SHN, they will have to remain in their place
of residence at all times during the 14-day period. This is stricter
than the existing LOA regime, which had allowed returnees to leave their
homes briefly, for example for their meals or to buy household supplies.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          c.      Those placed on the SHN will be reminded to monitor
their health closely and minimise contact with others.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

6.      The SHN will also cover returning workers from mainland China on
work passes. For such workers, we already require employers to seek
prior approval from the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) before they travel
back to Singapore. If the employers need help, MOM will link them up
with hotels or dormitory operators for their workers to serve out the
SHN.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

7.      We recognise that during the SHN period, some may need special
assistance, for example, for their food and daily necessities. We will
provide support for those who need help:

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          a.      Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents (PRs) and Long
Term Visit Pass (LTVP) holders can seek assistance from the People’s
Association.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          b.      Students can seek assistance from their schools and
institutions, or the Ministry of Education.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          c.      Those on work passes can seek assistance from their
employers or MOM.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

8.      We will continue to implement surveillance and enforcement
measures to ensure compliance with the SHN, so that the wellbeing of the
community is not put at risk:

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          a.      Those who flout the SHN may face penalties and can be
prosecuted under Section 21A of the Infectious Diseases Act.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

          b.      Foreign workers may have their work passes revoked and
be repatriated. Employers too may have their work pass privileges
withdrawn. Students may face disciplinary actions from their schools or
institutions. PRs, LTVP and Dependant’s Pass (DP) holders may have their
Re-Entry Permit, LTVP or DP revoked or the validity shortened.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

9.      With the introduction of the SHN, the Government will no longer
be issuing any more new LOAs to returnees with recent travel history to
mainland China (outside Hubei). The vast majority on the present regime
would have served out their LOAs in the coming days, and we will
continue to ensure their compliance in the meantime.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

**General advisories**

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

10.     The SHN is another precautionary measure we are taking to
minimise the risk of additional imported cases of COVID-19. Similar to
those placed on LOA previously, those issued SHNs are not suspected to
have been in close contact with confirmed cases, nor are they unwell or
displaying symptoms of the virus. These individuals are bearing
inconvenience for the benefit of the wider community.

</div>

<div>

 

</div>

<div>

11.     We therefore urge all landlords to cooperate and to allow their
tenants who are placed on SHN to serve out their full 14-day
requirements. Guidelines for landlords are available at the Ministry of
Health website (<https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19>) should they have a
tenant who is placed on SHN.

</div>
