321 More Cases Discharged, 327 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



321 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 327 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 17 Jul 2020

1.     As of 17 July 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 327 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 3 (1 Singaporean, 1 Dependant’s Pass holder, 1
    Long-Term Visit Pass holder)

    Amongst the 3 imported cases, 1 (Case 47522) is a Singaporean who
    returned from the Philippines on 6 July. The remaining cases are
    children who are Dependant’s Pass or Long-Term Visit Pass holders
    who arrived in Singapore from India on 26 June (Case 47389) and 15
    July (Case 47529). All of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home
    Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and had been tested while
    serving their SHN.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9 (6 Singaporeans, 2 Work Pass holders, 1
    Work Permit holder)

    Of the 9 cases in the community, 1 was picked up as a result of our
    proactive surveillance and screening, and 4 had already been placed
    on quarantine earlier. 5 of the cases are asymptomatic, and were
    detected through our proactive testing.

    8 of the community cases today are linked to previous cases or
    clusters. Of these, 4 cases (Cases 47434, 47445, 47504 and 47521)
    had been identified as contacts of previously confirmed cases, and
    had been placed on quarantine earlier. They were tested during their
    quarantine to determine their status, even though 3 of them are
    asymptomatic. Another case (Case 47502) was identified from our
    testing of individuals working in frontline COVID-19 operations. The
    remaining 3 cases (Cases 47242, 47508 and 47509) were swabbed under
    our enhanced community testing to test all individuals aged 13 and
    above who are diagnosed with acute respiratory infection at first
    presentation to a doctor. This allows us to detect infected
    individuals early and to quickly contain further spread.

    There is 1 community case (Case 47229) today who is currently
    unlinked. She had been hospitalised for reasons not related to
    COVID-19 and was subsequently tested positive following her demise.
    Epidemiological investigations of the case is in progress. In the
    meantime, all the identified close contacts of the case have been
    isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start
    and end of their quarantine period so that we can detect
    asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for the
    household contacts.

    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased,
    from an average of 16 cases per day in the week before, to an
    average of 11 per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases
    in the community has also decreased, from an average of 8 cases per
    day in the week before, to an average of 6 per day in the past
    week. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
    the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 315

 We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.     In the past week (10 July to 16 July), MOH has uncovered links
for 13 previously unlinked cases.

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     321 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 43,577 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 165 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 3,684 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

8.     Case 47229, a 72 year-old female Singapore Citizen, has passed
away on 15 July 2020. She had been conveyed to the National University
Hospital’s emergency department on 15 July for reasons not related to
COVID-19, and had a history of diabetes mellitus. She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 July after her demise. The cause of death
is intracerebral haemorrhage. [1]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Only cases where the attending doctor or pathologist attributes the
primary or underlying cause of death as due to COVID-19 infection will
be added to the COVID-19 death count. This is consistent with
international practice for classifying deaths.
