259 More Cases Discharged 178 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



259 MORE CASES DISCHARGED 178 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 12 Jul 2020

          As of 12 July 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 178 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A)       IMPORTED CASES: 1 (1 Permanent Resident)

There is an imported case today involving a Singapore Permanent Resident
who returned to Singapore from India on 6 July. She had been placed on
14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and had been
tested while serving SHN.

B)       CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Singaporean)

There is 1 case in the community today who had been detected as a result
of our community testing of all individuals aged 13 and above who are
diagnosed with acute respiratory infection at first presentation to a
doctor. This allows us to identify infected individuals early and to
quickly contain further spread. Epidemiological investigations are in
progress. In the meantime, all the identified close contacts of the case
have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the
start and end of their quarantine period so that we can detect
asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for his
household contacts to determine if he could have been infected by them.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 10 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 16 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also increased, from an average of 5 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 8 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C)       CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 176

We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.       Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.       Of the new cases, 96% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

4.       The Inter-Agency Task Force has been systematically and
progressively clearing dormitories through aggressive testing of migrant
workers residing in dormitories. The dormitories at Mandai Lodge I (460
Mandai Road), 10 Kaki Bukit Road 1 #03-32, 3 Sungei Kadut Street 6 and 9
Defu South Street 1 have been cleared, and now house only recovered
individuals and those who have recently tested negative for COVID-19
infection. As such, the clusters have now been closed.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.       In the past week (5 July to 11 July), MOH has uncovered links
for 4 previously unlinked cases.

6.       Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.       259 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 42,285 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.       There are currently 182 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 3,468 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 26 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

12 JULY 2020
