Precautionary Measures In Response to Severe Pneumonia Cases In Wuhan,
China

Precautionary Measures In Response to Severe Pneumonia Cases In Wuhan, China
============================================================================

Published Date: 02 Jan 2020

The Ministry of Health (MOH) is aware of the cluster of severe pneumonia
cases in Wuhan city, Hubei Province, China and is monitoring the
situation closely.

As a precautionary measure, MOH has alerted all medical practitioners to
be vigilant to look out for suspected cases with pneumonia who have
recently returned from Wuhan. Suspect cases with fever and acute
respiratory illness or pneumonia and with travel history to Wuhan within
14 days before onset of symptoms will be isolated as a precautionary
measure to prevent transmission.

From the evening of 3 January 2020, temperature screening will be
implemented at Changi airport for inbound travellers arriving on flights
from Wuhan, and suspected cases will be referred to hospitals for
further assessment. Health advisory posters for all travellers will be
put up at Changi Airport, and a health advisory will be provided to all
inbound travelers on flights from Wuhan.  

As of 2 January 2020, MOH has not been notified of any suspected cases.

**Health advisory**

MOH advises all travellers to Wuhan to monitor their health closely and
to seek medical attention promptly if they feel unwell, and to also
inform their doctor of their travel history. Travellers and members of
the public should adopt the following precautions at all times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    runny nose;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

