Five More Cases Discharged One New Case of COVID-19 Infection Confirmed

Five More Cases Discharged One New Case of COVID-19 Infection Confirmed
=======================================================================

Published Date: 25 Feb 2020

              Five more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospital today (Cases 58, 62, 77, 81 and 91). In all, 58 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospital.

2.             As of 25 February 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed and verified one more case of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore which is linked to a previous case.

**Links between previous cases found**

3.             Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
This was made possible with the assistance of the Singapore Police
Force.

a)        Six of the locally transmitted confirmed cases (Cases 31, 33,
38, 83, 90 and 91), as well as Cases 8 and 9, are linked to The Life
Church and Missions Singapore (146B Paya Lebar Road).

b)        These six cases are now linked to another 23 confirmed cases
(Cases 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71,
73, 74, 78, 80, 81, 84, 88) who are linked to the Grace Assembly of God.

c)         Nine of the confirmed cases (Cases 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27,
28, 34 and 40) are linked to Yong Thai Hang (24 Cavan Road).

d)        Three of the confirmed cases (Cases 30, 36 and 39) are linked
to the business meeting held at Grand Hyatt Singapore from 20 to 22
January.

e)        Five of the confirmed cases (Cases 42, 47, 52, 56 and 69) are
linked to the Seletar Aerospace Heights construction site.

4.             Investigations on these clusters are ongoing. In addition
to the clusters, our investigations have identified the following links
between cases:

·      Case 44 is linked to Cases 13 and 26;

·      Case 72 is linked to Cases 59 and 79;

·      Case 50 is linked to Cases 55, 65 and 77;

·      Case 75 is linked to Case 41; and

·      Case 86 is linked to Case 82.

5.             Contact tracing is underway for the other nine locally
transmitted cases to establish any links to previous cases or travel
history to mainland China.

**About the confirmed cases**

Case 91

6.              Case 91 is a 58 year-old female Singapore Citizen who
has no recent travel history to China. She is linked to Case 66 \[1\].

7.             She reported onset of symptoms on 23 January and had
sought treatment at a general practitioner (GP) clinic on 1 February, 6
February and 10 February. As she had been identified as a contact of
Case 66, she was referred by MOH to the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases (NCID) on 18 February. Subsequent test results confirmed
COVID-19 infection on 22 February afternoon.

8.             Prior to hospital admission, she had mostly stayed at her
home at Rivervale Drive.

**Update on condition of confirmed cases**

9.             To date, a total of 58 cases have fully recovered from
the infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 33
confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving.
Seven are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.

**Update on contact tracing for confirmed cases**

10.          Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.

11.          As of 25 February 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 2,846
close contacts who have been quarantined. Of these, 371 are currently
quarantined, and 2,475 have completed their quarantine.

**Health advisory\
**\
12.          Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China, and Daegu city
and Cheongdo county in the Republic of Korea. MOH also reminds the
public to continue to exercise caution when travelling to the rest of
the Republic of Korea.

13.          All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.

14.          Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:

·      Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing
symptoms of illness;

·      Observe good personal hygiene;

·      Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling
food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);

·      Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
shortness of breath;

·      Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing,
and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and

·      Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

15.          MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases, Singapore is
likely to see more cases that will need to be investigated.

 

<div>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div id="ftn1">

\[1\] Case 66 is a 28 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no recent
travel history to China who was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
14 February.

 

</div>

</div>
