No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 28 Oct 2020

1.     As of 28 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 7 imported cases, who had all
been placed on Stay-Home Notice upon arrival in Singapore. All new cases
today are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening
and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

7



7

0



0

7

TOTAL

7















2.     Overall, the number of new, as well as unlinked, cases in the
community has increased from 2 cases in the week before, to 3 in the
past week. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases, 1 is a Singapore Permanent Resident who
returned from Belgium. The rest are currently employed in Singapore. Of
these, 1 (Case 58154) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from
Switzerland, and 5 (Cases 58156, 58158, 58159, 58160 and 58161) are Work
Permit holders who arrived from Myanmar and the Philippines. They had
all been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were tested while
serving SHN.

3.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

4.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex A and Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     7 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,890 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 40 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 29 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.


