Precautionary Tuberculosis Screening for Residents of Block 174d Hougang
Avenue 1



PRECAUTIONARY TUBERCULOSIS SCREENING FOR RESIDENTS OF BLOCK 174D HOUGANG AVENUE 1


Published Date: 24 Oct 2020

             The Ministry of Health (MOH) will offer voluntary
Tuberculosis (TB) screening to residents and former residents of Block
174D Hougang Avenue 1. This is a precautionary measure following the
detection of a cluster of four individuals diagnosed with TB[1] residing
in four different units at the block. Screening will be conducted free
of charge, at the Tuberculosis Control Unit (TBCU) located at Moulmein
Road from 26 October onwards.

2.           Officers from the TBCU and the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases (NCID) will be conducting house visits to all units
at Block 174D Hougang Avenue 1 between 25 and 27 October, to engage
affected residents and encourage them to go for the screening. Residents
will be able to make appointments for TB screening at TBCU during the
house visits. Residents who are not at home at the time of the visit can
call the TBCU to make an appointment for screening. Former residents who
had lived in the block from February 2020, and wish to be screened, may
call the TBCU hotline at 6248 4430.

IDENTIFICATION OF TB CLUSTER

3.            MOH was notified on 10 October 2020 of four TB cases
involving residents of the same HDB block at 174D Hougang Avenue 1, who
were diagnosed between January 2018 to June 2020. All four individuals
live in different units of Block 174D. The cases had immediately started
on treatment following diagnosis. Amongst them, two have completed
treatment, while the remaining two are currently undergoing treatment
and are no longer infectious. As individuals diagnosed with TB will
rapidly become non-infectious once treatment starts, the cases are not
an ongoing public health risk.

4.          In line with MOHâ€™s TB prevention strategy, the Singapore TB
Elimination Programme (STEP) had initiated contact investigations upon
notification of the four cases. Close contacts of the cases had already
been identified and contacted by STEP for screening. Investigations for
each of four cases at the time of their diagnosis did not identify each
other as close contacts.

5.            The cluster was subsequently determined due to the results
of the genetic sequencing performed in October 2020 as part of
retrospective testing of TB cases to determine possible linkages. This
revealed that all four cases have similar genetic make-up.
Investigations into the cases did not reveal any common links, other
than that they live in the same block. They did not know or interact
with one another, or congregate at the same common areas, and had also
not identified each other as close contacts. The TB cluster therefore
does not fit the usual pattern of TB spread.

6.             TB is typically spread through close and prolonged
contact with an infectious individual, and not by contact with items or
surfaces touched by a person with TB. Therefore, persons who are
contacted and screened following the detection of a TB individual
typically comprise family members, close workplace colleagues and
acquaintances from common social activities with close and regular
interaction. This approach is recommended by the World Health
Organization (WHO) and is practised in Singapore.

PRECAUTIONARY TB SCREENING BEYOND CLOSE CONTACTS

7.            The expanded TB screening offered by MOH is a
precautionary measure to assure and protect residents living in the same
block. The exercise could help detect any undiagnosed TB cases. While
screening is not compulsory, MOH strongly encourages residents to be
screened. Those with positive screening results will be offered
appropriate advice and follow-up. Those with active TB will be treated
immediately while those with latent non-infectious TB will be monitored
and treated if necessary.

8.              The risk of transmission to persons who are not close
contacts of a TB case is very low. Screening is thus not necessary for
individuals who had occasionally visited the block or vicinity.

HEALTH ADVISORY

9.               TB is endemic in Singapore and latent TB infection is
not uncommon in our population, as TB had been prevalent in Singapore
until the 1970s and older Singaporeans could have been exposed to TB and
acquired latent TB infection when they were younger. Persons with latent
TB do not experience symptoms of TB and are not infectious.

10.              TB is curable and the spread of TB is preventable.
Early detection and prompt treatment of cases remain important in
helping those infected and rendering them non-infectious. For
individuals diagnosed with active TB, adherence to treatment is
important.

Annex

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] TB can be cured with anti-TB drugs. Treatment of active TB, which is
sensitive to first-line anti TB drugs, usually involves a combination of
different drugs, taken for six to nine months.
