14 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



14 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 19 Jun 2021

          As of 19 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 14 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. Of the 14 cases, 7 are linked
to previous cases and have already been placed on quarantine. 7 were
detected through surveillance, amongst whom 3 are linked to previous
cases and 4 are currently unlinked.  There are 7 imported cases, who
have already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 12 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 9 were
symptomatic.

Summary of new cases







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

14



7

7



9

5

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

7



7

0



0

7

TOTAL

21















2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
increased from 32 cases in the week before to 109 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased
from 14 cases in the week before to 18 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 140 confirmed cases reported from 13 June to 19
June, 48 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 82 have
tested negative, and 10 serology test results are pending.



CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 14

There are 14 cases in the community today, of whom 10 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.



CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64326 is a 46 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
developed a fever and runny nose on 16 June and sought medical treatment
at a polyclinic on 18 June, where she was administered both an antigen
rapid test (ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. She was
immediately isolated when her ART result came back positive. Her PCR
test result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 June.
Her serology test result is pending. Case 64326 received her first dose
of COVID-19 vaccine on 3 April, and the second dose on 1 May.

Case 64330 is an 86 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 18
June as part of our community surveillance testing for visitors to 115
and 116 Bukit Merah View. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test result is
negative.

Case 64333 is a 44 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 17
June as part of our community surveillance testing for visitors to 115
and 116 Bukit Merah View. Later that day, she developed a cough. Her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 June. Her
serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the
presence of early infection. Case 64333 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 23 May, and the second dose on 13 June.

Case 64336 is a 31 year-old female Vietnam national who works as a
pastry maker at Bakery Point (920 Tiong Bahru Road). She is
asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 18
June as part of our community surveillance testing for visitors to 86
Redhill Close. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 19 June. Her serology test result is pending.



115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64319 is a 42 year-old female Singaporean who works as a technical
executive at  Nanyang Polytechnic. She developed a cough on 12 June and
subsequently a sore throat on 13 June, and sought medical treatment at a
polyclinic on 14 June, where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test
result was negative for COVID-19. As she had been identified as a close
contact of Case 64229[1], she was placed on quarantine on 16 June. She
was tested for COVID-19 on 17 June during quarantine, and her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 June. Her
serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the
presence of early infection. Case 64319 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 29 March, and the second dose on 26 April.

Case 64322 is a 45 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is
an operations staff at Paxxus Pte Ltd. As she had been identified as a
close contact of Case 64231[2], she was placed on quarantine on 14 June.
She was tested for COVID-19 the next day and her test result came back
negative on 16 June. She subsequently developed a fever, sore throat and
runny nose on 17 June and was tested again for COVID-19. Her test result
came back positive for  COVID-19 infection on 18 June. Her serology test
result is pending.



Detected through surveillance:

Case 64321 is an 81 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
developed a cough on 15 June but did not seek medical attention. He was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 17 June as part of our
community surveillance testing for visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah
View. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18
June. His serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which
suggests the presence of early infection. Case 64321 received his first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 13 March, and the second dose on 3 April.

Case 64329 is a 41 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker and had visited 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food
Centre. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 18 June as part of our community surveillance testing for
visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is negative.

Case 64334 is a 35 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at J. Roger Preston Ltd. She developed a sore throat
on 13 June and sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP)
clinic on 14 June, where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result
came back negative for COVID-19 on the same day. On 18 June, she was
tested for COVID-19 as part of our community surveillance testing for
residents of 121 Bukit Merah View. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection the same day. She subsequently developed fever,
cough and body aches on 19 June. Her serology test result is pending.



TEKTRONIX CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64331 is a 14 year-old male Singaporean who a student at Canberra
Secondary School and was last in school on 18 May. He is a family member
and household contact of Cases 63721[3], 63933[4], 64065[5] and
64066[6], and a household contact of Case 64050[7], and was placed on
quarantine on 25 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May and 4 June
during quarantine and his test results were negative for COVID-19. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested again for COVID-19 on
18 June. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. His serology test result is negative.



CASE 64263 CLUSTER [8]

Already quarantined:

Case 64323 is a 66 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
family member of Cases 64324 and 64325, and a household contact of Case
64263, and was placed on quarantine on 16 June. He developed a fever on
17 June and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during quarantine.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 18 June. His serology
test result is pending.

Case 64324 is an 89 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member of Cases 64323 and 64325, and a household contact of
Case 64263, and was placed on quarantine on 16 June. She developed a
fever on 17 June and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during
quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 18 June.
Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64325 is a 64 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at Hong Leong Finance (16 Raffles Quay). She is a
family member and household contact of Cases 64323 and 64324, and a
household contact of Case 64263, and was placed on quarantine on 16
June. She developed a cough, runny nose and loss of taste that night but
did not report her symptoms. She subsequently developed a fever on 17
June and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during quarantine. Her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 June. Her
serology test result is pending. Case 64325 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 22 May, and the second dose on 12 June.



CASE 64264 CLUSTER [9]

Already quarantined:

Case 64332 is a 30 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
64264, she was placed on quarantine on 16 June. She is asymptomatic, and
was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 18 June. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 19 June. Her
serology test result is pending.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases, 3 (Cases 64337, 64338 and 64339) are
Singaporeans and 4 (Cases 64320, 64327, 64335 and 64341) are Singapore
Permanent Residents who returned from India, Thailand and the UAE.

They have all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  36 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,023 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.  There are currently 153 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 193 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 34 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  Case 64229 is an 87 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
frequently visited 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.

[2]  Case 64231 is a 35 year-old male India national who works as a
sales executive at Halnaz Frozen Goods Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 14 June.

[3]  Case 63721 is a 50 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
engineer at Tektronix Southeast Asia Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 24 May

[4]  Case 63933 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who is homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 31 May.

[5]  Case 64065 is a 13 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Canberra Secondary School. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 5 June.

[6]  Case 64066 is a 10 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Endeavour Primary School. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
5 June.

[7]  Case 64050 is a 25 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
4 June.

[8]  Case 64263 is a 47 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 June.

[9]  Case 64264 is a 32 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 June.


