22 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



22 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 22 May 2021

          As of 22 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 22 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 15 are linked to previous cases[1],
amongst which 12 have already been placed on quarantine. The remaining 7
are currently unlinked. The cases are in the community, and there are no
new cases in the dormitories. There are 7 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 9 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 20 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

22



12

10



20

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

7



7

0



0

7

TOTAL

29













2.      Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 103 cases in the week before to 199 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 14
cases in the week before to 61 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 263 confirmed cases reported from 16 May to 22
May, 35 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 113 have
tested negative, and 115 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 22

There are 22 cases in the community today, of whom 15 are linked to
previous cases and 7 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63568 is a 47 year-old male Malaysia national who is currently
unemployed. He was detected when he was tested on 19 May as part of our
Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) of migrant workers. On 20 May, he
developed a runny nose but did not seek medical attention. His RRT
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. His earlier
tests from RRT – the last being on 5 May – were all negative for
COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63575 is a 58 year-old male Singaporean who works at
Assalaamu’alaikum Enterprise Pte Ltd but has been working from home. He
developed a fever and cough on 13 May, but did not seek medical
treatment until 20 May when he went to Sengkang General Hospital for a
medical consultation and was tested for COVID-19. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. His serology test result
is pending.

Case 63580 is a 38 year-old male Singaporean who works as an online
stocks trader. He developed a runny nose on 17 May, fever on 18 May,
cough on 19 May and loss of taste on 20 May. He sought medical treatment
at a polyclinic on 20 May, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. His serology
test result is pending.

Case 63582 is a 41 year-old female China national who is a production
worker at Baxter Healthcare SA Singapore Branch. She developed a fever,
cough, sore throat, runny nose and headache on 14 May and sought medical
treatment on 16 May. She was given 5 days of medical leave but was not
tested for COVID-19. Her symptoms worsened, and she sought medical
treatment at another General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 19 May, where
she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 21 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63588 is a 30 year-old male Singaporean who works as an engineer at
Sembcorp Marine. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he went for a
COVID-19 test on 21 May offered for those who had visited Westgate, as
he had been at the mall recently. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63591 is a 54 year-old male Singaporean who works as a warehouse
manager at Sony Electronics Pte Ltd. As he had visited Westgate
recently, he went for a COVID-19 test on 21 May offered for those who
had visited the mall. That night, he developed a fever. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test
result is pending. Case 63591 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 30 April and the second dose on 21 May.

Case 63593 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Fun Toast (Westgate Tower). He developed anosmia on
19 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day,
where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test result is pending.

CHANGI AIRPORT TERMINAL 3 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63586 is a 33 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She is a household contact of Case 62998[2], and was
placed on quarantine on 8 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 14 May
during quarantine and her test result was negative for COVID-19
infection. She was tested again on 21 May during quarantine, and her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. On the
same day, she developed a sore throat. Her serology test result is
pending.



SMS INFOCOMM CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63571 is a 19 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Singapore Polytechnic, and part-time food processor at SATS Food
Services Pte Ltd. He had last gone to school on 14 May. He is a family
member and household contact of Case 63462[3]. He developed a fever,
cough, runny nose, headache and fatigue on 17 May and did not seek
medical treatment. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
63462, he was placed on quarantine on 19 May. He was detected when he
was tested on 21 May during quarantine. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test
result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63577 is a 35 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
factory operator at Sms Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd and had last gone
to work on 15 May. He is a family member and household contact of Case
63448[4] . He was tested for COVID-19 on 18 May and his ART came back
positive on the same day. A PCR test administered on 19 May came back
negative for COVID-19. He took a second PCR test on 20 May and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. He developed
a fever the next day. His serology test result is pending.



PACIFIC LAW CORPORATION CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63579 is a 50 year-old female Singaporean who works at Pacific Law
Corporation. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
63335[5], she was placed on quarantine on 17 May. She developed a fever
on 18 May but did not report her symptom. She was tested for COVID-19 on
20 May during quarantine and her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection the next day. Her serology test result is negative
for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case
63579 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 3 May.

MCDONALD’S DELIVERY RIDERS CLUSTER [6]

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63569 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias
Community Club). He is a household contact of Cases 63534 and 63535[7].
He felt fatigued on 17 May, and developed flu-like symptoms on 19 May
but did not seek medical treatment. He was placed on leave of absence by
his employer on 21 May and went for a COVID-19 test. He was detected
when he tested positive for both his ART and PCR tests on 21 May. His
serology test result is pending.

CASE 63357 CLUSTER [8]

Already quarantined:

Case 63559 is a 30 year-old female Singaporean who is employed by
Singapore General Hospital as a nurse deployed at the Tiong Bahru
Community Nurse Post, and had last gone to work on 10 May. She is a
family member of Case 63357, and was placed on quarantine on 16 May. She
was tested for COVID-19 on 20 May during quarantine and her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. On the same day,
she developed a fever. Case 63559 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 11 March and the second dose on 1 April. Her serology test
result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of
early infection.

Case 63560 is a 2 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at My First
Skool at 51 Fernvale Link. As he had been identified as a close contact
of Case 63357, he was placed on quarantine on 16 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 20 May during quarantine and his test result came back
positive for COVID-19 the next day. On the same day, he developed a
fever. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63578 is a 74 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 63524[9], and was placed
on quarantine on 20 May. On the same evening, she developed a fever,
sore throat and cough, and was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her
serology test result is negative.

Case 63570 is a 77 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
family member of Case 63408[10], and was placed on quarantine on 18 May.
He developed a fever and cough on 20 May evening, and was tested for
COVID-19 the next day. his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 21 May. His serology test result is negative.

CASE 63414 CLUSTER [11]

Already quarantined:

Case 63584 is a 9 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Springdale Primary School, and was last in school on 17 May. She is a
family member and household contact of Case 63414, and was placed on
quarantine on 17 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May during
quarantine, and developed anosmia the same evening. Her test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection the same day. Her serology test
result is pending.

Case 63585 is a 5 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at M.Y.
World Preschool (Anchorvale Parkview). She is a family member and
household contact of Case 63414. She developed a fever, runny nose and
abdominal pain on 11 May, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on
13 May but was not tested for COVID-19. As she had been identified as a
close contact of Case 63414, she was placed on quarantine on 17 May. She
was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May during quarantine and her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology
test result is pending.

CASE 63479 CLUSTER [12]

Already quarantined:

Case 63592 is a 41 year-old Myanmar national who works as a project
manager at Compact Metal Industries Pte Ltd, and was last at work on 19
May. He is a household contact of Case 63479 and was placed on
quarantine on 19 May. He is asymptomatic and was detected when he was
tested for COVID-19 on 21 May during quarantine. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test result
is pending.

CASE 63487 CLUSTER [13]

Already quarantined:

Case 63581 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
household contact of Case 63574, and was placed on quarantine on 19 May.
He developed a sore throat on 21 May and was tested for COVID-19 when he
reported his symptom. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 on
22 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63581 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 11 March, and the second dose on 15
April.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63574 is a 19 year-old female Malaysia national who is a student at
Singapore Polytechnic and had not gone to school since 15 May. She is a
close contact of Case 63487. She developed a cough and sore throat on 16
May, and a fever the next day. She sought medical treatment at a GP
clinic on 19 May, where she underwent both an ART and PCR test. She was
immediately isolated when her ART came back positive on the same day.
Her PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May.
Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63516 CLUSTER [14]

Already quarantined:

Case 63572 is a 1 year-old male Singaporean and a family member of Cases
63513[15]  and 63516. He developed a fever on 16 May. As he has been
identified as a close contact of Case 63516, he was placed on quarantine
on 19 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 20 May during quarantine and
his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day.
His serology test result is negative.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases,

•  2 (Cases 63583 and 63587) are Singaporeans and 1 (Case
63576) is a Singapore Permanent Resident who returned from India and the
Philippines.
•  1 (Case 63595) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from
Angola.
•  3 (Cases 63561, 63565 and 63567) are Work Permit holders who
arrived from the Philippines.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN.

4.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

CLOSURE OF JEM AND WESTGATE SHOPPING MALLS FROM 23 MAY

6.  MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection amongst
individuals who worked in or visited JEM and Westgate. We have conducted
special testing operations for staff who worked in JEM and Westgate, and
are extending free COVID-19 testing to all visitors to JEM and Westgate
from 10 May to 14 May. There are 10 recent cases linked to the malls, of
whom 4 were detected from the testing operations, which are still in
progress.

7.  Our epidemiological investigations have found that there is
likely ongoing transmission among individuals who visited these malls.
To break any potential chain of transmission and enable deep cleaning of
the premises, JEM and Westgate shopping malls will be closed to all
members of the public starting from 23 May 2021 and re-open 14 days
later, on 6 June 2021. Members of the public will still be able to
access Ng Teng Fong General Hospital through Westgate, and the office
towers at these premises will remain open. All visitors to JEM and
Westgate since 10 May are advised to monitor their health closely for 14
days from their date of visit. They are encouraged to visit a Regional
Screening Centre or “Swab and Send Home” (SASH) Public Health
Preparedness Clinic for a free COVID-19 test if they feel unwell.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.  35 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,277 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

9.  There are currently 255 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 5 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 235 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 32 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
22 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------



[1]  This is updated from the afternoon press release as 1 more case has
been linked to previous cases following our investigations.
[2]  Case 62998 is a 40 year-old female Singaporean who works as a risk
assessment personnel at Lendlease Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 8 May.
[3]  Case 63462 is a 49 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
factory operator at Sms Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd, and a close
contact of Case 63273. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
19 May.
[4]  Case 63448 is a 29 year-old female Malaysia national who works at
Sms Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd, and a close contact of Case 63318. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 May.
[5]  Case 63335 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
administrative personnel at Pacific Law Corporation. She was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.
[6]  Case 63534 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonald’s (Bedok
Reservoir). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 on 20 May.
[7]  Case 63535 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias
Community Club). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 20 May.
[8]  Case 63357 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as an IT
engineer at AbbVie Operations Singapore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.
[9]  Case 63524 is a 41 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker,
and a close contact of Case 63357. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 20 May.
[10]  Case 63408 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree,
and a family member and household contact of Cases 63357 and 63363. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.
[11]  Case 63414 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
vending machine loader at Warburg Pte Ltd, and a food delivery rider for
Deliveroo and Grab. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18
May.
[12]  Case 63479 is a 49 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident
who is a homemaker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 20
May.
[13]  Case 63487 is a 19 year-old female Malaysia national who is a
student at Singapore Polytechnic. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 19 May.
[14]  Case 63516 is a 28 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 20 May.
[15]  Case 63513 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who works at Slide
and Hide System Pte Ltd, and is a family member and household contact of
Case 63516. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 on 20 May.
