Community Surveillance Testing At 52 & 53 Chin Swee Road and 3 & 9 Jalan
Kukoh



COMMUNITY SURVEILLANCE TESTING AT 52 & 53 CHIN SWEE ROAD AND 3 & 9 JALAN KUKOH


Published Date: 14 Aug 2021

    The Ministry of Health (MOH) is investigating likely COVID-19
transmission at 52 and 53 Chin Swee Road[1], and 3 and 9 Jalan Kukoh. So
far, five cases of COVID-19 infection have been detected in two
households at 52 Chin Swee Road. Separately, three cases of COVID-19
infection in three households and seven cases of COVID-19 infection in
four households, have been detected at 3 and 9 Jalan Kukoh,
respectively. Epidemiological investigations are ongoing to determine
linkages and the source of transmission.
2.  In order to uncover community infection cases, MOH will
conduct mandatory COVID-19 testing for all residents of 52 and 53 Chin
Swee Road, and 3 and 9 Jalan Kukoh; as well as owners and staff of
commercial units at these blocks. As an added precautionary measure,
mandatory COVID-19 testing will also be conducted for all staff and
cleaners working at Jalan Kukoh Food Centre (1 Jalan Kukoh). Testing is
optional for those who have tested negative for COVID-19 infection from
11 August onwards.
3.  Mandatory testing will be conducted on 15 August between 9am to 4pm
at the void deck between 51 and 53 Chin Swee Road, and from 15 August to
16 August between 9am to 4pm at the level 4 void deck of 9 Jalan Kukoh,
respectively.
4.  All residents are to bring along their NRIC for identification
purposes.Leaflets have been distributed and SMS notifications have been
sent to the residents to provide them with more information. Residents
are reminded to keep to their appointment time. Residents are also
advised to monitor their health closely and consult a doctor immediately
if they feel unwell. Those who are still awaiting their test results are
advised to minimise social interactions as much as possible. They should
continue to monitor their health and seek immediate medical attention if
they feel unwell.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
14 AUGUST 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1 52 and 53 Chin Swee Road are connected.
