30 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



30 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 21 May 2021

     As of 21 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are 30 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection, of whom 22 are linked to previous cases,and 8 are currently
unlinked. Amongst them, 17 had already been placed on quarantine
earlier[1]. The cases are in the community, and there are no new cases
in the dormitories. There are 10 imported cases, who had already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the
new cases today, 14 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 26 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

30



17

13



26

4

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

10



10

0



0

10

TOTAL

40













2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 91 cases in the week before to 196 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 13
cases in the week before to 56 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.
3.    Amongst the 265 confirmed cases reported from 15 May to 21 May,
44 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 130 have tested
negative, and 91 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS
A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 30
There are 30 cases in the community today, of whom 22 are linked to
previous cases and 8 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES
Detected through surveillance:

Case 63507 is a 31 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong Ye
Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park. He developed a
cough, blocked nose and breathlessness on 18 May, and sought medical
treatment at a polyclinic on the same day, where he was tested for
COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
19 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63510 is a 29 year-old male India nationalwho works as a sales
personnel at Platinum Yoga. He developed chills and fatigue on 19 May.
As he had visited Westgate recently, he went for a COVID-19 test on 19
May offered for those who had visited Westgate. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 May. His serology test result
is pending.

Case 63514 is a 17 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He developed a fever, cough, headache and flu-like symptoms
on 18 May, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic that night, where
he tested positive for his antigen rapid test (ART). He was immediately
isolated and a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test was administered on
the same day. His PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 20 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63515 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works as a technician
at Singapore Refining Company Pte Ltd. He developed a fever on 18 May,
and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he
was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 20 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63516 is a 28 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
developed a fever on 14 May but did not seek medical treatment until 19
May, when she developed shortness of breath. She went to a GP clinic on
19 May, where she tested positive for her ART, and was immediately
isolated. Her PCR test came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 20
May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63534 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonaldâ€™s (Bedok
Reservoir). He developed a fever and cough on 17 May but did not seek
medical treatment until 20 May, where he underwent both an ART and PCR
test, and both test results came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on the same day. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63536 is a 20 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at the
National University of Singapore, and a part-time retail staff at
Hijabville. She developed a sore throat, runny nose and cough on 13 May,
but did not seek medical attention. On 19 May, she went for a COVID-19
swab as part of our testing operations for those who had visited
Westgate. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
21 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63543 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who works as an operations
personnel at The Meatery SG. He developed a blocked nose and anosmia on
19 May, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day,
where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 21 May. His serology test result is pending.

CHANGI AIRPORT TERMINAL 3 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63518 is a 68 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He is a family member and household contact of
Case 63382[2], and was placed on quarantine on 17 May. He developed a
cough on 18 May but did not report his symptom. He was detected when he
was tested on 19 May during quarantine and his test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 May. His serology test result is
pending.
Case 63519 is a 70 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
family member and household contact of Case 63382, and was placed on
quarantine on 17 May. He is asymptomatic and was detected when he was
tested on 19 May during quarantine. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 20 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63528 is a 38 year-old female Singaporean who works at Samiko
Enterprises & PPP International Group Pte Ltd. She is a family member of
Case 63344[3], and was placed on quarantine on 15 May. She was tested
for COVID-19 on 20 May during quarantine, and developed a cough, sore
throat and runny nose on the same day. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 May. Her serology test result is
negative.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63553 is a 57 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
at Standard Chartered Bank, and had last gone to work on 27 April. He
developed a runny nose on 15 May but did not seek medical treatment. As
he had visited Changi Airport Terminal 3 on 2 May, he went for a
COVID-19 test on 19 May offered as part of our testing operations for
visitors to Changi Airport. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 21 May. His serology test result is pending. Case
63553 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 10 April and the
second dose on 1 May.

CHANGI PRISON COMPLEX CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63522 is a 66 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. He is a close contact of Case 63160[4] and was placed on
quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 13 May and 17 May
and his test results came back negative. He developed a fever on 19 May,
and was tested for COVID-19 again. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 20 May. His serology test result is
negative. Case 63522 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 17
March and the second dose on 7 April.
Case 63526 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. He is a close contact of Case 63160 and was placed on
quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 13 May and 17 May
and his test results came back negative. He was tested on 19 May again,
and his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 May.
On the same day, he developed a cough. His serology test result is
pending.

JIN TAI TONG FOOD INDUSTRIES CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63511 is a 35 year-old Malaysia national who works as a sales
assistant at Jin Tai Mart. As he had been identified as a close contact
of Case 63461[5], he was placed on quarantine on 19 May. He is
asymptomatic and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 19 May
during quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 20 May. His serology test result is negative.

PACIFIC LAW CORPORATION CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63523 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who works as a shipping
executive at Star Shipping Agencies. He is a family member and household
contact of Case 63460[6] and was placed on quarantine on 19 May. On the
same evening, he developed a runny nose, sore throat, cough and
headache, and reported his symptoms. He was tested for COVID-19 on 19
May and his test result came back positive or COVID-19 infection the
next day. His serology test result is pending.

CASE 63236 CLUSTER[7]

Already quarantined:

Case 63506 is a 51 year-old female Singaporean who works at UOB Kay
Hian. She is a family member and household contact of Case 63236 and was
placed on quarantine on 14 May. She developed a sore throat on 16 May,
and a fever on 18 May, and was tested for COVID-19 when she reported her
symptoms on 18 May. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 20 May. Her serology test result is negative.

CASE 63357 CLUSTER[8]
Already quarantined:

Case 63509 is a 1 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Skool4kidz Centre at Punggol Way and AWWA Early Intervention Centre @
Fernvale. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 63357, he
was placed on quarantine on 16 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 18 May
during quarantine and his test result came back negative on 19 May. He
is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested again on 19 May and
his test result came back positive for COVID-19 the next day. His
serology test result is negative.

Case 63520 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works as an associate
at Standard Chartered Bank but has been working from home. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63357, he was placed on
quarantine on 17 May. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was
tested on 19 May during quarantine and his test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. His serology test result
is pending.

Case 63524 is a 41 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. As
she had been identified as a close contact of Case 63357, she was placed
on quarantine on 16 May. She developed a fever, sore throat and body
aches on 18 May but did not report her symptoms until 19 May. She was
tested for COVID-19 on 20 May and her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test result is
negative.

CASE 63376 CLUSTER[9]

Already quarantined:

Case 63537 is a 11 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Anglo-Chinese School (Junior). As he had been identified as a close
contact of Case 63476[10], he was placed on quarantine on 20 May. He
developed a fever, cough and runny nose on the same day, and was tested
for COVID-19 when he reported his symptoms. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. His serology test result is
pending.

CASE 63479 CLUSTER[11]
Already quarantined:

Case 63533 is a 11 year-old male Myanmar national who is a student at
Bukit View Primary School and had not gone to school since 14 May. He is
a family member and household contact of Cases 63479 and 63485[12], and
was placed on quarantine on 19 May. He developed a fever, sore throat,
cough and anosmia on 17 May, and sought treatment at a GP clinic, and
was given 5 daysâ€™ medical leave. He was tested on 19 May during
quarantine, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 20 May. His serology test result is pending.
OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63508 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who works as an engineer
at Flexicon Singapore Pte Ltd. He is a family member and household
contact of Case 63417[13], and was placed on quarantine on 17 May. He
developed a fever on the same evening, and cough the next day, but did
not report his symptoms until 19 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 19
May during quarantine and his test result came back positive on 20 May.
His serology test result is pending.

Case 63517 is a 30 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She is a household contact of Case 63392[14], and was
placed on quarantine on 17 May. She developed a fever, sore throat and
body aches on 18 May night, and was tested for COVID-19 on 19 May during
quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
20 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63521 is a 31 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She is a household contact of Case 63307[15], and was
placed on quarantine on 16 May. She developed a fever, cough and runny
nose on 18 May night, but did not report her symptoms. She was tested
for COVID-19 on 19 May during quarantine, and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 May. Her serology test result is
negative.

Case 63527 is a 49 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as an administrative staff at the Republic of Singapore Yacht
Club. She is a family member and household contact of Case 63480[16].
She developed a headache on 14 May, and again on 17 May but did not seek
medical attention. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 63480, she was placed on quarantine on 19 May. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 20 May during quarantine, and her test result came back
positive on the same day. Her serology test result is negative for the N
antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case 63527
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 1 May.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63505 is a 22 year-old female Malaysia national who works at
Seagate Singapore International Headquarters Pte Ltd, and is a household
contact of Case 63482[17]. She developed a fever and cough on 18 May
night, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day, where
she tested positive for her ART and was immediately isolated. Her PCR
test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 20 May. Her serology test
result is pending.

Case 63513 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who works at Slide and Hide
System Pte Ltd, and is a family member and household contact of
Case 63516. He developed a fever on 18 May, and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic on the same day, where he was tested for COVID-19. He was
placed on quarantine on 19 May, and his test result came back positive
on 20 May. His earlier tests from RRT â€“ the last being on 4 May â€“ were
all negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 63535 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonaldâ€™s (Pasir Ris Elias
Community Club). He is a household contact of Case 63534. He developed
body aches on 18 May but did not seek medical treatment until 20 May,
where he underwent both an ART and PCR test, and both test results came
back positive on the same day. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63551 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
administrative personnel at Tomoe Transtech Specialty Gases Pte Ltd. She
is a family member and household contact of Case 63543. She developed a
blocked nose and anosmia on 19 May night, and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic on same day, where she was tested COVID-19. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 May. Her serology
test result is pending.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0
There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 10

Amongst the 10 imported cases,

-   3 (Cases 63512, 63525 and 63550) are Singaporeans and 5 (Cases
    63529, 63531, 63552, 63555 and 63556) are Singapore Permanent
    Residents who returned from India, Indonesia and the US.
-   2 (Cases 63532 and 63540) are Work Permit holders who arrived from
    Indonesia and the Philippines, both of whom are foreign domestic
    workers.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.    Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.    Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
6.    MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the OM
Universal Pte Ltd cluster for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28
days), the cluster has now been closed.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.    13 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,242 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.    There are currently 249 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 4 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 247 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 32 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This is updated from the 16 reported in the afternoon press release
as we have verified that 1 more case had been placed on quarantine
earlier.

[2] Case 63382 is a 95 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.

[3] Case 63344 is a 63 year-old female Singaporean who is a
homemaker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[4] Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by
SATS Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison Complex. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May

[5] Case 63461 is a 40 year-old male China national who works as a store
assistant at Jin Tai Mart. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 19 May.

[6] Case 63460 is a 38 year-old female Singaporean who works at Pacific
Law Corporation, and is a workplace contact of Case 63335. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[7] Case 63236 is a 53 year-old male Singaporean who works as a personal
chauffeur. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14 May.

[8] Case 63357 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as an IT
engineer at AbbVie Operations Singapore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[9] Case 63376 is a 46 year-old female Singaporean who is an investment
banker at DBS. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.

[10] Case 63476 is a 12 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Anglo-Chinese School (Junior). He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 19 May.

[11]Case 63479 is a 49 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is a homemaker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

 [12] Case 63485 is a 15 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident
who is a student at Yuan Ching Secondary School. She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[13] Case 63417 is a 38 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
analyst at HSBC but has been working from home since 6 May. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 May.

[14] Case 63392 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who is a manager at
Corner Stone Global Partners Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 17 May.

[15] Case 63307 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works at Clean
Solutions Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15
May.

[16] Case 63480 is a 41 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
customer service personnel at Times Bookstore but had not gone to work
since 30 April. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[17] Case 63482 is a 54 year-old female Malaysia national who works at
Seagate Singapore International Headquarters Pte Ltd. She was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.
