Launch of Careshield Life for Cohorts Born In 1979 Or Earlier



LAUNCH OF CARESHIELD LIFE FOR COHORTS BORN IN 1979 OR EARLIER


Published Date: 14 Oct 2021

_Transfer of ElderShield administration from private insurers to
Government from 1 November_

         CareShield Life is the national long-term care insurance scheme
to provide basic financial protection against severe disability. It was
launched on 1 October 2020 to replace the ElderShield scheme. To ensure
that policyholders can benefit from improvements to the claims
assessment process, and upgrade more smoothly to CareShield Life, the
Government will take over the administration of the ElderShield scheme
from private insurers from 1 November 2021.

2. CareShield Life is mandatory for all Singapore Citizens or
Permanent Residents born in 1980 or later. From 6 November 2021, the
scheme is ready for eligible Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents
born in 1979 or earlier to join. Existing ElderShield 400 policyholders
who were born in 1970 to 1979 will be automatically enrolled and do not
need to take action to join. All others will have to sign up via the
CareShield Life website to join.

CARESHIELD LIFE COVERAGE FOR COHORTS BORN IN 1979 OR EARLIER

3.       CareShield Life helps address care needs by pooling risks so
that each individual has basic financial protection for one’s long-term
care costs should one become severely disabled. With one in two
Singaporeans aged 65 expected to become severely disabled in their
lifetime, the Government accepted the recommendations of the ElderShield
Review Committee (ESRC) in 2018 to introduce CareShield Life, an
enhanced national long-term care insurance scheme.

4.       Under CareShield Life, individuals who become severely
disabled¹ will have better basic financial protection, namely:

-   Increase in payouts: CareShield Life payouts increase annually until
    age 67 or when a successful claim is made, whichever is earlier. The
    payout level is currently $612 in 2021. This is enhanced from
    ElderShield’s fixed payouts of $300 or $400 per month.

-   Longer duration of payouts: CareShield Life provides payouts for
    life, during the entire duration of severe disability. This is an
    improvement from ElderShield, which provides up to 60 or 72 months
    of payouts.

-   Premium support: Premium support is available for CareShield Life to
    ensure no one loses coverage due to an inability to pay. This is
    enhanced from ElderShield, which does not have premium support
    measures.

5.       CareShield Life was launched on 1 October 2020 for all
Singapore Citizens or Permanent Residents born in 1980 or later. These
cohorts are automatically covered under CareShield Life from 1 October
2020, or when they turn 30, whichever is later. There are currently over
740,000 policyholders among mandatory cohorts onboard CareShield Life.

6.       Going forward, all Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents
born in 1979 or earlier, can choose to join CareShield Life, if they are
not severely disabled:

-   The auto-enrolment group: To make joining CareShield Life more
    convenient, Singapore Citizens or Permanent Residents BORN IN 1970
    TO 1979, who are INSURED UNDER ELDERSHIELD 400 and are NOT SEVERELY
    DISABLED, WILL BE AUTO-ENROLLED ONTO CARESHIELD LIFE FROM 1 DECEMBER
    2021. No action is required if they wish to join CareShield
    Life. They will receive a CareShield Life welcome package, which
    provides more information on their CareShield Life coverage and
    personalised premiums.

-   Those who are not in auto-enrolment group: From 6 November 2021, ALL
    OTHER SINGAPORE CITIZENS OR PERMANENT RESIDENTS BORN IN 1979 OR
    EARLIER² WHO ARE NOT SEVERELY DISABLED can sign up for CareShield
    Life at careshieldlife.gov.sg. Auto-enrolment was not extended to
    this group because it consists of ElderShield 300 policyholders,
    uninsured individuals, and older individuals who will face higher
    annual premiums compared to the auto-enrolment group. They should
    therefore weigh the costs and benefits, and make a conscious
    decision to opt into CareShield Life. They can check their
    personalised premiums on the website before submitting
    their application to join CareShield Life. Existing ElderShield
    policyholders will continue to be covered under ElderShield if they
    choose not to upgrade from ElderShield to CareShield Life.

7.       We encourage enrolment into CareShield Life, as it will provide
better protection than ElderShield, through higher and lifetime payouts.
To encourage individuals to join CareShield Life, the Government will
provide PARTICIPATION INCENTIVES OF UP TO $2,500 to all Singapore
Citizens born in 1979 or earlier who join CareShield Life by 31 December
2023. ADDITIONAL PARTICIPATION INCENTIVES OF $1,500 will also be
provided to Merdeka and Pioneer Generation citizens who join CareShield
Life by 31 December 2023. Please refer to Annex A for the available
premium support measures.

TRANSFER OF ELDERSHIELD ADMINISTRATION

8.       From 1 November 2021, the Government will take over
administration of the ElderShield scheme from private insurers³. With
this, policyholders can benefit from improvements to the claims
assessment process, and upgrade more smoothly to CareShield Life from 6
November 2021. There will be no change to their ElderShield coverage,
claim eligibility criteria, or monthly payout quantum under Government
administration.

9.       From 1 November 2021, ElderShield policyholders may submit
requests or enquiries on ElderShield via Write to Us
(careshieldlife.gov.sg/writetous) or call the Healthcare Hotline at
1800-222-3399 /+65 6222 3399 (overseas) from Monday to Friday, 8.00am to
5.30pm. To submit a claim for ElderShield, policyholders can do so via
the Agency for Integrated Care (AIC) eServices for Financing Schemes
portal at https://efinance.aic.sg. For further assistance, policyholders
may contact AIC at 1800 650 6060 / +65 6650 6060 (overseas) during their
operating hours.

10.       From now to 31 October 2021, ElderShield policyholders should
continue to approach their respective insurer for ElderShield matters.
For the contact information of insurers, please refer
to https://careshieldlife.gov.sg/eldershield/insurer.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
14 OCTOBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Severe disability is defined as being unable to perform at least
three out of six Activities of Daily Living (ADLs).
[2] This excludes Singapore Citizens or Permanent Residents born in 1970
to 1979 who are insured under ElderShield 400 and not severely disabled,
as they will be part of the auto-enrolment group in Para 6.
[3] The insurers are Aviva, Great Eastern, and NTUC Income.
