13 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



13 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 11 May 2021

     As of 11 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are 13 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection, of whom 8 had already been placed on quarantine earlier. The
cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. There are 12 imported cases, who had already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 13 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 12 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

13



8

5



11

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

12



12

0



1

11

TOTAL

25













2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 63 cases in the week before to 40 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 9 cases in
the week before to 12 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
3.   Amongst the 151 confirmed cases reported from 5 May to 11 May, 69
cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 60 have tested
negative, and 22 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 13

There are 13 cases in the community today, of whom 10 are linked to
previous cases and 3 are currently unlinked.

Case 63068

Case 63068 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
manufacturing operator at Siltronic Singapore Pte Ltd. He had not gone
to work after onset of symptoms.

He developed body aches on 6 May, and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day, and was given 2 days’
medical leave. He developed a fever and cough on 8 May, and sought
treatment at another GP clinic at night. He was tested for COVID-19 the
next day, and his result came back positive on 10 May. His serology test
result is negative.

Case 63069

Case 63069 is a 50 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as an IT support staff at Kulicke & Soffa Pte Ltd. He also works
part-time as a barista at Starbucks at Plaza Singapura and a general
worker at LBC Express at Lucky Plaza.

He developed a cough and shortness of breath on 6 May but did not seek
medical treatment. On 8 May night, as his symptoms had persisted, he
went to a GP clinic where he was tested for COVID-19 infection the next
day. His test result came back positive on 10 May. His serology test
result is negative. Case 63069 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 24 April and has not received his second dose.

Case 63073

Case 63073 is a 42 year-old male Malaysia national who works as an
operating theatre technician at Ng Teng Fong General Hospital. He
returned to Singapore on 10 January after a trip to Malaysia, and served
SHN until 24 January. His test taken on 23 January during SHN was
negative for COVID-19.

He developed a cough on 21 April but did not seek medical treatment. His
cough worsened and on 10 May, he sought medical treatment at the
hospital’s staff clinic, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test
result came back positive on the same day. His Ct value was very high,
which is indicative of a low viral load and his serology test result has
come back positive. He could be shedding minute fragments of the virus
RNA from a past infection which are no longer transmissible and
infective to others. However given that we are not able to definitively
conclude when he had been infected, we will take all the necessary
public health actions as a precautionary measure.

Case 63083

Case 63083 is a 72 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
family member and household contact of Case 62969 [1].

As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 62969, he was
placed on quarantine on 8 May. The next day, he developed a cough but
did not report his symptoms to MOH. On 10 May, he was tested for
COVID-19 during quarantine and his result came back positive the next
day. His serology test result is pending. Case 63083 received his first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 23 February, and the second dose on 16
March.

Case 63084

Case 63084 is a 48 year-old female Singaporean who works as a relief
school library assistant, but had not gone to work after onset of
symptoms. She is the spouse of Case 63005 [2]

As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 63005, she was
placed on quarantine on 8 May, and was tested for COVID-19 on 10 May
during quarantine. On the same day, she developed a fever, cough and
body aches. Her test result came back positive the next day. Her
serology test result is pending.

CASE 62113 [3] CLUSTER

Case 63078

Case 63078 is a 54 year-old male Indonesia national who is a sea crew
working on board bunker tanker MT ALLI. He had not disembarked from the
vessel, except to be conveyed to a dedicated quarantine facility.

As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 62113, he was
placed on quarantine on 25 April. He was tested during quarantine on 9
May and his result came back positive for COVID-19 infection. His
serology test is negative.

CASE 62873 [4] CLUSTER

Case 63059

Case 63059 is a 63 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Ramky
Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport Terminal 3.


He developed a cough and flu-like symptoms on 7 May night but did not
seek medical treatment. He was tested for COVID-19 on 9 May as part of
our proactive testing of staff working at Changi Airport Terminal 3, but
did not report his symptoms when contacted by MOH. On 10 May, his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection. His earlier tests from
RRT – the last being on 13 April – were all negative for COVID-19
infection. His serology test result is positive. Case 63059 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 25 January, and the second dose on 15
February. He has tested preliminarily positive for the B1617 variant,
and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63060

Case 63060 is a 55 year-old female Singaporean who works at M171 Gourmet
Street Coffeeshop. She is the spouse of Case 62945 [5]

As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 62945, she was
placed on quarantine on 7 May, and was tested for COVID-19 on 9 May
during quarantine. Her test result came back positive the next day. Her
serology test result is negative.

Case 63061

Case 63061 is a 43 year-old female China national who is employed by EM
Services Pte Ltd and deployed as a housekeeper at Changi General
Hospital. She is a household contact of Case 62971 [6].

As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 62971, she was
placed on quarantine on 8 May. She developed a cough the next day, and
reported her symptom to MOH. She was tested for COVID-19 and her result
came back positive on 10 May. Her serology test result is positive. Case
63061 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 20 January, and the
second dose on 10 February. She has tested preliminarily positive for
the B1617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63070

Case 63070 is a 56 year-old male Malaysia national who is a cleaner at
Kopitiam at Changi Airport Terminal 3, and Happy Hawkers at 267
Compassvale Link.

He developed a cough and sore throat on 9 May and sought medical
treatment after work at Changi General Hospital, where he was tested for
COVID-19. His result came back positive the next day. His serology test
result is negative.

Case 63071

Case 63071 is a 46 year-old female China national who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Robinson 77. She is a
household contact of Case 62971.

As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 62971, she was
placed on quarantine on 8 May. She developed a fever the next day, and
reported her symptom to MOH that night. She was tested for COVID-19 on
10 May and her result came back positive on the same day. Her serology
test result is pending. She has tested preliminarily positive for the
B1617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63072

Case 63072 is a 40 year-old male Malaysia national who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a premises maintenance officer at
Changi Airport Terminal 3. He is a close contact of Case 63015 [7].

He developed fatigue on 8 May, and a cough on 9 May but did not seek
medical treatment. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
63015, he was placed on quarantine on 9 May and reported his symptoms to
MOH. He was tested for COVID-19 on the same day and his result came back
positive on 10 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63072
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 22 January, and the
second dose on 15 February. He has tested preliminarily positive for the
B1617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63074

Case 63074 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
administrative staff at SBY Frozen Food Supply but has been working from
home for the past few months. She is a family member and household
contact of Case 63055 [8].

She developed a runny nose on 9 May, and reported her symptom when she
was contacted by MOH as she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 63055. She was tested for COVID-19 on 9 May during quarantine, and
her test result came back positive the next day. Her serology test
result is negative.

Update on Case 62941

Our epidemiological investigations have found that Case 62941 [9] is
linked to the Case 62873 cluster. She had been at Raffles Medical at
Changi Airport Terminal 3 on 23 April, 30 April and 3 May. She also
visited Kopitiam located at Changi Airport Terminal 3 Basement 2 on 3
May. Based on our investigations, Cases 62942 [10] and 62945 had also
visited the same foodcourt on 3 May. She was likely to have been
infected while she was at Changi Airport Terminal 3 on 3 May.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 12

Amongst the 12 imported cases,

-   3 (Cases 63066, 63079 and 63085) are Singaporeans and 2 (Cases 63064
    and 63080) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from
    India, Malaysia and the UK.
-   1 (Case 63082) is a Dependant's Pass holder who arrived from
    Indonesia.
-   3 (Cases 63065, 63077 and 63081) are Work Pass holders who arrived
    from Indonesia, the Philippines and Sri Lanka.
-   1 (Case 63067) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from India.
-   2 (Cases 63075 and 63076) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case
    63075 arrived from Japan for a work project in Singapore and Case
    63076 arrived from Indonesia to visit her family member who is a
    Singapore Permanent Resident.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN. The arrivals from the Indian
sub-continent had already come into Singapore before the restrictions on
travel were imposed [11]

4.   Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.    Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     22 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,975 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.     There are currently 144 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 253 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
11 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 62969 is a 38 year-old male Singaporean who works as a private
hire car driver with Grab. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 8 May.

[2] Case 63005 is a 47 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
landscaper at NParks. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 8
May.

[3] Case 62113 is a 39 year-old male Indonesia national who is a sea
crew on board bunker tanker MT ALLI. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 16 April.

[4] Case 62873 is an 88 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 5 May.

[5] Case 62945 is a 57 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
aviation officer at  Changi Airport Terminal 1 and Terminal 3. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 7 May.

[6] Case 62971 is a 51 year-old female Work Permit holder who is
employed by Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner deployed at
Changi Airport Terminal 3. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 8 May.

[7] Case 63015 is a 63 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner deployed at Changi Airport
Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 9 May.

[8] Case 63055 is a 59 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Certis Cisco as an aviation security officer at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10 May.

[9] Case 62941 is an 18 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Victoria Junior College. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
7 May.

[10] Case 62942 is a 33 year-old male Singaporean who works as a safety
coordinator at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 7 May.

[11] From 23 April 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term pass holders and
short-term visitors with recent travel history (including transit) to
India within the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore,
or transit through Singapore. From 1 May 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term
pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel history
(including transit) to Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka within
the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit
through Singapore.
