24 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



24 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 14 May 2021

1.     As of 14 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 24 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection, of whom 20 are linked to previous cases.
Amongst them, 16 had already been placed on quarantine earlier. The
cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. There are 28 imported cases, who had already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 31 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 21 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

24



16

8



19

5

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

28



27

1



2

26

TOTAL

52















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 43 cases in the week before to 91 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 9 cases in
the week before to 16 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 194 confirmed cases reported from 8 May to 14 May, 66
cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 88 have tested
negative, and 40 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 24

There are 24 cases in the community today, of whom 20 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.

Case 63160

Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by SATS
Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison. He developed a fever
and runny nose on 12 May after work, and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic, where he was tested for COVID-19. His
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. His
serology test result is pending. Case 63160 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 23 March, and the second dose on 10 April.

Case 63166

Case 63166 is a 22 year-old male Singaporean who works as a cook at WOK
HEY (White Sands). He developed a fever, cough and runny nose on 10 May
evening and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day, where
he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 13 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63183

Case 63183 is a 70 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
developed a fever and cough on 10 May evening, and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic the next day, where she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
13 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63220

Case 63220 is a 48 year-old male Singaporean who works as a GrabFood
delivery personnel. He developed a fever, cough and sore throat on 12
May night and sought medical treatment at Singapore General Hospital the
next day, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 14 May. His serology test result is
pending.

CASE 63131[1] CLUSTER

Case 63184

Case 63184 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School and attended Case 63131’s classes at Learning Point
located at Parkway Centre. He had not gone to school after onset of
symptoms. He developed a fever on 11 May and sought medical treatment at
a GP clinic the next day. As he had been identified as a close contact
of Case 63131, he was placed on quarantine on 12 May. On 13 May, he was
tested for COVID-19 infection and his test result came back positive on
the same day. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63185

Case 63185 is a 9 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at Kong
Hwa School, and attended Case 63131’s classes at Learning Point located
at Parkway Centre. She had not gone to school after onset of symptoms.
She developed a fever on 12 May and sought medical treatment at a GP
clinic on the same day. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 63131, she was placed on quarantine on 12 May. On 13 May, she was
tested for COVID-19 infection and her test result came back positive on
the same day. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63186

Case 63186 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Andrew’s Junior School, and attended Case 63131’s classes at Learning
Point located at Parkway Centre. He developed a fever on 11 May while in
school, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day. As he
had been identified as a close contact of Case 63131, he was placed on
quarantine on 12 May. On 13 May, he was tested for COVID-19 infection
and his test result came back positive on the same day. His serology
test result is pending.

Case 63187

Case 63187 is an 8 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Kong
Hwa School, and attended Case 63131’s classes at Learning Point located
at Parkway Centre. He developed a fever on 11 May while he was in school
and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic on the same day. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63131, he was placed on
quarantine and was tested for COVID-19 infection on 12 May. His test
result came back positive the next day. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 63188

Case 63188 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School, and attended Case 63131’s classes at Learning Point
located at Parkway Centre. He developed a runny nose on 11 May but did
not seek medical treatment. As he had been identified as a close contact
of Case 63131, he was placed on quarantine on 12 May. On 13 May, he was
tested for COVID-19 infection and his test result came back positive on
the same day. His serology test result is pending.

CASE 63096[2] CLUSTER

Case 63221

Case 63221 is a 39 year-old male Philippines national who works at Unity
Pharmacy. He is a family member of Case 63122[3] and household contact
of Case 63096, and was placed on quarantine on 11 May. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 13 May
during quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 14 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63221
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 23 February, and the
second dose on 22 March.

CASE 62541[4] CLUSTER

Case 63168

Case 63168 is an 88 year-old male Singaporean who had been warded in Tan
Tock Seng Hospital Ward 9D from 19 April, and was transferred to the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) on 29 April, and has been
warded there since. He was tested for COVID-19 daily from 2 May and all
his test results were negative for COVID-19 infection. On 12 May, his
test came back positive for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result
is negative.

CASE 62873[5] CLUSTER

Case 63165

Case 63165 is a 25 year-old female Malaysia national who works as
service personnel at a store at Ngee Ann City but had not gone to work
after onset of symptoms. She is a close contact of Case 63167. She
developed a cough and sore throat on 11 May, and sought medical
attention at a GP clinic on the same day, where she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
13 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63167

Case 63167 is a 27 year-old male Singaporean who works as a sales
executive at a retail store at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He developed
body aches on 7 May, and a cough and anosmia on 11 May and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he was tested
for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 13 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63167 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 19 January, and the second dose on 9
February.

Case 63169

Case 63169 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who works as a Principal
at a language school. She is a family member of Case 63047[6]. She
developed a sore throat on 10 May. On the same day, as she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63047, she was placed on
quarantine and reported her symptom to MOH. She was tested for COVID-19
on 10 May but her test result came back negative. On 12 May, she
developed a fever during quarantine, and was tested again. This time,
her test result on 13 May was positive for COVID-19 infection. Her
serology test result is pending.

Case 63177

Case 63177 is a 60 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
administrative staff at the Ministry of Manpower. She is a household
contact of Cases 63059[7] and 63135[8], and was placed on quarantine on
10 May. On 12 May, she was tested for COVID-19 and her test result came
back positive on the same day. The next day, she developed a sore
throat. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63178

Case 63178 is a 57 year-old male Singaporean who works as an Immigration
and Checkpoints (ICA) officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He developed
a cough and runny nose on 10 May and sought medical treatment at a
polyclinic the next day, where he was tested for COVID-19 infection. His
test result came back positive on 13 May, and his serology test result
is pending. Case 63178 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 27
January, and the second dose on 17 February.

Case 63179

Case 63179 is a 46 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
cleaner at Kopitiam Square (10 Sengkang Square). He is a household
contact of Case 63070[9], and was placed on quarantine on 11 May. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 12 May during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
13 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63179 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 10 May.

Case 63180

Case 63180 is a 39 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
cleaner at Kopitiam Square (10 Sengkang Square). He is a household
contact of Case 63070, and was placed on quarantine on 11 May. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 12 May during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
13 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63181

Case 63181 is a 91 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a household contact of Case 63070, and was placed on quarantine on 11
May. She developed a cough and sore throat the next day but did not
report her symptoms. She was tested on 12 May during quarantine, and on
the same day, she developed a fever. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 13 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63191

Case 63191 is a 29 year-old male Malaysia national who is employed by
Idemia Singapore Pte Ltd as an IT support engineer at Changi Airport
Terminal 1 and Terminal 4. He developed a fever on 7 May and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic on 11 May, where he was tested for
COVID-19. As he was still unwell on 13 May, he sought treatment at
Singapore General Hospital where he was isolated upon admission. His
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.
His serology test result is pending.

Case 63192

Case 63192 is a 53 year-old female China national who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Robinson 77. She is a
close contact of Case 63071[10] and was placed on quarantine on 10 May.
She developed a fever on 12 May, and reported her symptom. She was
tested for COVID-19 on the same day and her result came back positive on
13 May. Case 63192 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 21
April.

Case 63194

Case 63194 is a 28 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Certis
Cisco as an aviation security officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He
developed a cough on 9 May but did not seek medical treatment. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63055[11], he was placed on
quarantine on 10 May, and tested for COVID-19 on 12 May. His test result
came back positive on 13 May. His earlier tests from RRT – the last
being on 8 May – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. His
serological test result is pending. Case 63194 received his first dose
of COVID-19 vaccine on 14 January, and the second dose on 4 February.

Case 63195

Case 63195 is a 67 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Certis
Cisco as an aviation screening officer at Changi Airport Terminal 1. As
he had been identified as a close contact of Case 63055, he was placed
on quarantine on 10 May, and tested for COVID-19 on 13 May even though
he is asymptomatic. His test result came back positive on 14 May. His
earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 27 April – were all negative
for COVID-19 infection. His serological test result is pending. Case
63195 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 14 January, and the
second dose on 4 February.

Case 63219

Case 63219 is a 51 year-old male Singaporean who works as an ICA officer
at Changi Airport Terminal 3. As he had been identified as a close
contact of Case 63094[12], he was placed on quarantine on 11 May. He
developed a mild cough on 12 May but did not report his symptom. On 13
May, he was tested for COVID-19 infection, and developed a sore throat
in the evening. His test result came back positive on 14 May. His
serology test result is pending. Case 63219 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 25 January, and the second dose on 15 February.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0
There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 28

Amongst the 28 imported cases,

-   6 (Cases 63151, 63154, 63170, 63182, 63217 and 63218) are
    Singaporeans and 13 (Cases 63152, 63153, 63155, 63156, 63157, 63161,
    63198, 63199, 63200, 63201, 63202, 63214 and 63215) are Singapore
    Permanent Residents who returned from India, Indonesia, South Korea
    and the UK.
-   1 (Case 63211) is a Student’s Pass holder who arrived from Thailand.
-   3 (Cases 63193, 63196 and 63197) are Work Pass holders who arrived
    from Nepal and Papua New Guinea.
-   4 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, Indonesia and
    the Philippines, of whom 3 (Cases 63172, 63210 and 63228) are
    foreign domestic workers.
-   1 (Case 63175) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    Indonesia to seek medical treatment and visit his family member who
    is a Singapore Permanent Resident.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN. The arrivals from the Indian
sub-continent had already come into Singapore before the restrictions on
travel were imposed[13].

Case 63175 is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who was already receiving
medical care in Singapore, and had returned for follow-up treatment. He
arrived from Indonesia on 23 April and served SHN at a dedicated
facility until 7 May. His swab done on 6 May during SHN was negative for
COVID-19. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for
COVID-19 on 12 May in preparation for surgery. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day, although the Ct value was
very high, which is indicative of a low viral load. His serological test
result has also come back positive. Given that these indicate likely
past infection, we have classified the case as imported. He is likely to
be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA, which are no longer
transmissible and infective to others.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.     18 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,047 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.     There are currently 180 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 247 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

14 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63131 is a 50 year-old female Singaporean who works as a tutor
at Learning Point. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12
May.

[2] Case 63096 is a 33 year-old male Philippines national who works as
an operating theatre nurse at Sengkang General Hospital. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 11 May.

[3] Case 63122 is a 7 year-old male Philippines national who is a
student at Yio Chu Kang Primary School. He is a household contact of
Case 63096. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 May.

[4] Case 62541 is a 46 year-old nurse at Tan Tock Seng Hospital, and is
deployed at Ward 9D. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27
April.

[5] Case 62873 is an 88 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 5 May.

[6] Case 63047 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
operations personnel at Raffles Medical located at Changi Airport
Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 0 May.

[7] Case 63059 is a 63 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10 May.

[8] Case 63135 is a 44 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker and is a contact of Case 63059. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 May.

[9] Case 63070 is a 56 year-old male Malaysia national who is a cleaner
at Kopitiam at Changi Airport Terminal 3, and Happy Hawkers at 267
Compassvale Link. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10 May.

[10] Case 63071 is a 46 year-old female China national who is employed
by Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Robinson 77. She is
a household contact of Case 62971 and was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 10 May.

[11] Case 63055 is a 59 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Certis Cisco as an aviation security officer at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10 May.

[12] Case 63094 is a 39 year-old male Singaporean who works as an ICA
officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 11 May.

[13] From 23 April 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term pass holders and
short-term visitors with recent travel history (including transit) to
India within the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore,
or transit through Singapore. From 1 May 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term
pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel history
(including transit) to Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka within
the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit
through Singapore.


