Introduction of Pre-implantation Genetic Testing for Monogenic/ Single
Gene Defects and Chromosomal Structural Rearrangements As Clinical
Services



INTRODUCTION OF PRE-IMPLANTATION GENETIC TESTING FOR MONOGENIC/ SINGLE GENE DEFECTS AND CHROMOSOMAL STRUCTURAL REARRANGEMENTS AS CLINICAL SERVICES


Published Date: 04 May 2021

To continue safeguarding patient safety and ensuring appropriate
standards of care, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will transit
pre-implantation genetic testing for monogenic/ single gene defects
(PGT-M) and pre-implantation genetic testing for chromosomal structural
rearrangements (PGT-SR) from a pilot programme to regulated clinical
services. The introduction of PGT-M and PGT-SR as clinical services
allows patients who require these services to potentially access a
larger selection of providers, beyond those in the pilot programme.
2.      For couples undergoing Assisted Reproduction (AR) treatment,
PGT-M and PGT-SR services will continue to be provided by the existing
providers that meet the regulatory requirements, as well as new
providers when they receive approval. There is no change to the criteria
for couples who wish to undergo PGT-M and PGT-SR as these services
should only be carried out for couples at risk of passing on serious
genetic disorders.
3.      Hospitals and clinics offering AR services, and clinical
laboratories that currently offer or wish to offer PGT-M and PGT-SR will
require approval from the MOH to offer these services and comply with
the relevant regulatory terms and conditions under the Private Hospitals
and Medical Clinics Regulations (PHMCR). As of 1 May 2021, MOH has
received nine applications from hospitals, and clinics offering AR
services and one clinical laboratory offering PGT-M and PGT-SR. The list
of approved AR centres that eligible patients can approach for the PGT-M
and PGT-SR services will be available on the MOH website.
4.      PGT-M and PGT-SR, previously known as pre-implantation genetic
diagnosis, have been available in Singapore since 2005, under a pilot
programme by MOH. PGT-M and PGT-SR are offered to patients at risk of
transmitting serious inheritable diseases that are due to single gene
mutations or chromosomal structural rearrangements to their children.
Based on findings from the pilot programme, PGT-M and PGT-SR were found
to be safe and able to reduce the likelihood of liveborn offspring being
affected by these serious inheritable diseases. The live birth rate per
embryo transfer from PGT-M and PGT-SR under the local programme is also
in line with overseas  centres¹. In view of this, PGT-M and PGT-SR will
transit from the pilot programme to regulated mainstream clinical
services.
5.      MOH has introduced amendments to the PHMCR to regulate the
provision of PGT-M and PGT-SR as specialised procedures, special care
services, and  specialised tests under the Second, Third and Fifth
Schedules of the PHMCR respectively. The PHMC (Amendment No. 2)
Regulations 2021 were published on 30 April 2021 and take effect on 1
May 2021.
6.      The controls that were in place under the pilot programme will
be formalised and enhanced through the regulatory terms and conditions
that approved providers have to comply with. These include the clinical
conditions for which PGT-M and PGT-SR are allowed to be carried out,
types of information permitted to be provided to patients, and the
requirements on personnel training and competency. Providers who offer
the PGT-M and PGT-SR services without the necessary licence and approval
from MOH to provide these service may be prosecuted under Regulation 60
of the PHMCR, and liable to a fine not exceeding $2,000, imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 12 months, or both. Hospitals and clinics
offering AR services, and clinical laboratories may also have their
approval to provide PGT-M and PGT-SR services, and/or their existing
hospital or clinic licences suspended or revoked.
[1] Medical Services Advisory Committee (MSAC) – Assessment of
Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis, 2015. Tan Y, Yin X, Zhang S, Jiang H,
Tan K, Li J, et al. Clinical outcome of preimplantation genetic
diagnosis and screening using next generation sequencing. GigaScience.
2014; 3(1).
