5 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



5 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 07 Jun 2021

1.     As of 7 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 5 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection, all of whom are linked to previous cases, and have
already been placed on quarantine.The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. There are 9 imported cases,
who have already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 12 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

5



5

0



2

3

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

9



9

0



0

9

TOTAL

14















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 128 cases in the week before to 105 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 23
cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 159 confirmed cases reported from 1 June to 7 June,
76 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 69 have tested
negative, and 14 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 5

There are 5 cases in the community today, all of whom are linked to
previous cases.

ATATCUTZ SINGAPORE (348 BEDOK ROAD) CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64091 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works as a technical
officer at Singapore Power and a part-time barber at Atatcutz Singapore
(348 Bedok Road). He is a workplace contact of Cases 63969[1], 64049[2]
and 64057[3], and was placed on quarantine on 2 June. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 4 June during quarantine and his test result came back
negative. He developed a fever and shortness of breath on 5 June and was
again tested for COVID-19 on 6 June. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 64093 is a 39 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
manager at Prudential Services Singapore and has been working from home.
As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 64057, he was
placed on quarantine on 5 June. He developed a sore throat on the same
day and reported his symptom. He was tested for COVID-19 infection on 6
June, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. His serology test result is pending.

MINDSVILLE@NAPIRI CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Cases 64090 and 64094 are residents at MINDSville@Napiri. They are
asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive testing of residents
of the Home. Both have already been vaccinated against COVID-19.

CASE 63964 CLUSTER[4]

Already quarantined:

Case 64103 is a 55 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at Alco Engineering Trading Pte Ltd, and was last at
work on 11 February. She is a family member of Cases 63964 and 64011[5],
and was placed on quarantine on 2 June. She is asymptomatic, and was
detected when she was tested on 6 June during quarantine. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 on 7 June. Her serology test
result is pending. Case 64103 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 1 May and the second dose on 22 May.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 9

Amongst the 9 imported cases,

2 (Cases 64092 and 64100) are Singaporeans and 3 (Cases 64099, 64101 and
64102) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from Belgium,
India and the UK.

1 (Case 64098) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from the Philippines.

3 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia and Malaysia, of
whom 1 (Case 64095) is a foreign domestic worker.
They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.
4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.     25 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,660 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.     There are currently 204 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 313 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 33 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

7 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63969 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
barber at Atatcutz Singapore (348 Bedok Road). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 2 June.

[2] Case 64049 is a 25 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
barber at Atatcutz Singapore (348 Bedok Road). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 4 June.

[3] Case 64057 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
barber at Atatcutz Singapore (348 Bedok Road). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 4 June.

[4] Case 63964 is a 61 year-old female Singaporean who works at NTUC
FairPrice (Clementi Avenue 3). She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 1 June.

[5] Case 64011 is a 51 year-old male Singaporean who works as a private
hire driver for Grab. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 2
June.
