Update On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 15 Sep 2021

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   822 cases are currently warded in hospital. There are currently   |
|     76 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and |
|     9 in critical condition in the intensive care unit (ICU).         |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, the percentage of unvaccinated who became  |
|     severely ill or died is 5.7%, while that for the fully vaccinated |
|     is 1.1%.                                                          |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 14 September 2021, 81% of our population has completed      |
|     their full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and  |
|     84% has received at least one dose.                               |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 15 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has         |
|     detected a total of 807 new cases of COVID-19 infection in        |
|     Singapore, with 770 in the community, 34 in the migrant worker    |
|     dormitories and 3 imported cases.                                 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+




CONDITION OF HOSPITALISED CASES

1.     As of 15 September 2021, 12pm, 822 COVID-19 cases are currently
warded in hospital. Most are well and under observation. There are
currently 76 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation,
and 9 in critical condition in the ICU. Of those who have fallen very
ill, 66 are seniors above 60 years.

FIGURE 1: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation[1]

[210915 Figure 1]

2.     Over the last 28 days, the percentage of local cases who were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms is 98.2%. Of the 124 cases who
required oxygen supplementation, 59 were not fully vaccinated and 65
were fully vaccinated. Of the 9 who had been in the ICU, 5 were not
fully vaccinated and 4 were fully vaccinated. Of the 4 who died, none
was fully vaccinated[2].

FIGURE 2: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition[3]

[210915 Figure 2]

FIGURE 3: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised[1], by Age Groups

[210915 Figure 3]

UPDATE ON VACCINATION PROGRESS

3.     As of 14 September 2021, 81% of our population has completed
their full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 84% has
received at least one dose.

4.     We have administered a total of 8,881,071 doses of COVID-19
vaccines under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech
Comirnaty and Moderna), covering 4,561,574 individuals, with 4,432,411
individuals having completed the full vaccination regimen. In addition,
179,086 doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health
Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered,
covering 86,731 individuals.

LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 CASES

5.     As of 15 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has
detected a total of 807 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore,
comprising 770 community cases, 34 dormitory residents cases and 3
imported cases.

a) ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING

6.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[4]

REMARKS

Orange Valley Nursing Home (Simei)

3

13

All 13 cases are residents. Residents and staff on the affected levels
are being tested. All other residents and staff will also undergo
testing.

Jamiyah Nursing Home

13

13

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 13 cases, 10 are
residents and 3 are staff. Residents and staff on the affected level are
being tested. All other staff and residents will also undergo testing.

7 Senoko South Road dormitory

9

26

Ongoing intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. Residents have been placed on quarantine, and are
being tested.

Madrasah Irsyad Zuhri Al-Islamiah

1

11

Transmission amongst students in the same class with further spread to
household contacts of cases.

11 Tuas Ave 10 dormitory

1

23

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing.

All Saints Home (Jurong East)

1

12

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 12 cases, 10 are
residents and 2 are staff. All staff on the affected level have been
tested.

Ren Ci @ Bukit Batok Street 52

3

32

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 32 cases, 23 are
residents and 9 are staff. All residents and staff are being tested.

Avery Lodge Dormitory

5

87

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. Residents have been placed on Movement Restriction
Order, and are being tested.

DHL Supply Chain Advanced Regional Centre (1 Greenwich Drive)

7

71

Workplace transmission with further spread to household contacts of
cases. Of the 71 cases, 63 are staff and 8 are household contacts of
cases.

Chinatown Complex

11

197

Ongoing workplace transmission, including 154 stallholders and
assistants, 7 working as cleaners/ Safe Distancing Ambassador, and 36
household contacts of workers.

Hu Lee Impex (Chin Bee Avenue)

1

70

Workplace transmission with further spread to household contacts of
cases. These include 55 staff (including 31 vegetable packers) and 15
household contacts of cases.

PCF Sparkletots Braddell Heights (335 Serangoon Avenue 3)

3

27

Transmission amongst students in the same class, with further spread to
household contact of cases. All new cases have been quarantined earlier.

30 Sunview Way construction site

5

175

Workplace transmission, no evidence of spread beyond worksite. All new
cases have been quarantined earlier.

Sembcorp Marine Tuas Boulevard Yard

3

102

Most cases are residents of 38 Kian Teck Drive dormitory. All new cases
have been quarantined earlier.

Bugis Junction

1

318

Intra-mall transmission amongst staff and visitors, with further
transmission to close contacts of staff and visitors.

Toa Payoh Bus Interchange staff

3

231

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Tampines Bus Interchange staff

5

102

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Boon Lay Bus Interchange staff

5

218

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Bishan Bus Interchange staff

1

41

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Clementi Bus Interchange staff

2

65

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters



b) SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

7.     There are 804 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19 infection
in Singapore, with 770 in the community and 34 in the migrant worker
dormitories. Amongst the local cases today are 238 seniors who are above
60 years.

FIGURE 5: Number of Local Cases by Age

[210915 Figure 5]



SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

8.     There are a total of 3 imported cases, who have already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore.
Of these, 1 was detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 2 developed
the illness during SHN or isolation.

FIGURE 6: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[210915 Figure 6]

9.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

15 SEPTEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes all cases who are currently hospitalised.

[2] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals).

[3] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days.

[4] Includes new cases added today.
