10 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



10 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 12 May 2021

          As of 12 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 10 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection, of whom 9 are linked to previous cases.
The cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. There are 6 imported cases, who had already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 8 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 8 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

10



4

6



7

3

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

6



6

0



1

5

TOTAL

16















2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 62 cases in the week before to 49 cases in the past week.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 7 cases
in the week before to 12 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 151 confirmed cases reported from 6 May to 12
May, 69 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 66 have
tested negative, and 16 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 10

There are 10 cases in the community today, of whom 9 are linked to
previous cases and 1 is currently unlinked.

Case 63096

Case 63096 is a 33 year-old male Philippines national who works as an
operating theatre nurse at Sengkang General Hospital.

He developed a runny nose on 9 May night, cough on 10 May night, and
subsequently fever, sore throat, shortness of breath and loss of taste
on 11 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 10 May as part of Sengkang
General Hospital’s proactive testing of staff and his test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 11 May. His serology test result
is positive. Case 63096 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on
19 January, and the second dose on 8 February. He has tested
preliminarily positive for the B1617 variant, and is pending further
confirmatory tests.

CASE 62969[1] CLUSTER

Case 63092

Case 63092 is a 36 year-old female Vietnam national who is a Short-Term
Visit Pass holder. She is a household contact of Cases 62969 and
63083[2].

She arrived from Vietnam on 12 April, and served SHN at a dedicated
facility until 26 April. Her pre-departure test taken in Vietnam on 10
April was negative for COVID-19 infection, as was a test taken during
SHN on 25 April. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
62969, she was placed on quarantine on 8 May, and tested for COVID-19 on
10 May during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection the next day. Her serology test result is negative.

CASE 62873[3] CLUSTER

Case 63091

Case 63091 is a 24 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Huawei
Enterprise as an IT engineer and works at Changi Airport Terminal 4. He
had been at Changi Airport Terminal 3 on 28 April and 3 May. He had not
gone to work after onset of symptoms.

He developed a fever on 7 May which subsided on the same day with
self-medication. The next day, his fever returned at night and resolved
with self-medication again. On 9 May, he sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic and was diagnosed with tonsilitis. He
developed a fever later on the same day, and sought treatment at another
GP clinic that evening where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result
came back positive on 11 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63094

Case 63094 is a 39 year-old male Singaporean who works as an Immigration
and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3.

He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 9 May as part
of Rostered Routine Testing (RRT). His pooled test result came back
positive for COVID-19 the next day. He was conveyed to the National
Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) on 10 May, and an individual test
was done. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
11 May. His earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 12 April – were
all negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is
negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early
infection. Case 63094 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 17
January, and the second dose on 7 February. He has tested preliminarily
positive for the B1617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory
tests.

Case 63095

Case 63095 is a 38 year-old female Singaporean who works as an ICA
officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3.

She was detected when she was tested on 9 May as part of RRT. Her pooled
test result came back positive for COVID-19 the next day and she was
conveyed to NCID on 10 May, where an individual test was done. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 11 May. On the same
day, she developed a runny nose. Her earlier tests from RRT – the last
being on 15 April – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. Her
serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the
presence of early infection. Case 63095 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 30 January, and the second dose on 20 February. She
has tested preliminarily positive for the B1617 variant, and is pending
further confirmatory tests.

Case 63097

Case 63097 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Ramky
Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner and trolley handler at Changi
Airport Terminal 3.

As he had been identified as a contact of Case 62940[4], he was placed
on quarantine on 8 May. On 9 May, he developed a runny nose during
quarantine, and was tested for COVID-19 the next day. His test result
came back positive on 11 May. His serology test result is pending. Case
63097 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 22 January, and the
second dose on 14 February.

Case 63098

Case 63098 is a 28 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Certis
Cisco as an aviation security officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He
had not gone to work after onset of symptoms.

He developed a fever, sore throat and body aches on 7 May and sought
medical treatment at a polyclinic the next day where he was tested for
COVID-19. His result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 11
May. His earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 3 May – were all
negative for COVID-19 infection. His serological test result is pending.

Case 63100

Case 63100 is a 65 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Ramky
Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport Terminal 3.

He developed a runny nose on 6 May but did not seek medical treatment.
As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 62873, he was
placed on quarantine on 9 May but did not report his symptom. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 11 May during quarantine. On the same day, he
developed a headache and runny nose. His test result came back positive
on 11 May. His serology test result is negative. Case 63100 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 25 January, and the second dose on 18
February. He has tested preliminarily positive for the B1617 variant,
and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63109

Case 63109 is a 42 year-old male Singaporean who works as a sales
associate at a retail store at Changi Airport Terminal 3.

She developed a cough and itchy throat on 9 May while at work and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day. She was given 5 days’
medical leave, and tested for COVID-19 the next day. Her test result
came back positive on 12 May. Her earlier tests from RRT – the last
being on 14 April – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. Her
serology test result is pending. Case 63109 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 28 February, and the second dose on 21 March.



UPDATE ON CASE 63005

Our epidemiological investigations have found that Case 63005[5] is
linked to the Case 62873 cluster. He had been at Changi Airport Terminal
3 on 3 May and 4 May, and had visited the same locations as Cases 62940
and 62942[6] during their infectious period. He was likely to have been
infected while he was at Changi Airport Terminal 3.



ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES AT CHANGI AIRPORT

With the detection of more COVID-19 cases and ongoing special testing
operations of all workers in Changi Airport’s Terminals 1 and 3, and
Jewel Changi Airport, Changi Airport Passenger Terminal Buildings will
be closed to all members of the public starting from 13 May and re-open
14 days later, on 27 May. In addition, Jewel will be closed for 14 days
over the same period. We urge all airport workers as well as staff
working in Jewel to refrain from going out except for essential work or
activities for the next 14 days. They should also not be redeployed to
other workplaces or outlets during this period.

To pre-emptively mitigate any potential risk of wider, undetected
community transmission, we will offer free COVID-19 testing for members
of the public who had visited Changi Airport Terminal 3 from 3 May
onwards. MOH will progressively inform these individuals via SMS
notification with information on how to book an appointment for their
test. All visitors to Changi Airport Terminal 1 and Jewel from 3 May
onwards are also advised to monitor their health closely for 14 days
from their date of visit. They are strongly encouraged to visit a
Regional Screening Centre or “Swab and Send Home” (SASH) Public Health
Preparedness Clinic for a free COVID-19 test if they feel unwell.



CASE 62541[7] CLUSTER

Case 63104

Case 63104 is a 64 year-old female Singaporean who had been warded in
Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH) Ward 9D from 26 April, and was transferred
to NCID on 28 April. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 62541, she was placed on quarantine on 29 April. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 26 April, 28 April and 30 April, and the results were
negative. She was discharged on 2 May and continue to be on quarantine.
She was tested for COVID-19 on 11 May during quarantine. Her test result
came back positive on the same day. Her serology test result is negative
for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

THERE ARE NO CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES TODAY.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 6

Amongst the 6 imported cases,

•  1 (Case 63103) is a Singaporean and 1 (Case 63106) is a
Singapore Permanent Resident who returned from India.
•  3 (Cases 63093, 63105 and 63108) are Work Pass holders who
arrived from Malaysia, the Philippines and Sri Lanka.
•  1 (Case 63111) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from the
Philippines and is a foreign domestic worker.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN. The arrivals from the Indian
sub-continent had already come into Singapore before the restrictions on
travel were imposed [8].

4.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  31 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,006 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.  There are currently 143 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 239 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
12 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  Case 62969 is a 38 year-old male Singaporean who works as a private
hire car driver with Grab. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 8 May.
[2]  Case 63083 is a 72 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
is a family member and household contact of Case 62969. He was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 11 May.
[3]  Case 62873 is an 88 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 5 May.
[4]  Case 62940 is a 47 year-old male Work Permit holder who is employed
by Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Airport
Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 7 May.
[5]  Case 63005 is a 47 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
landscaper at NParks. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 8
May.
[6]  Case 62942 is a 33 year-old male Singaporean who works as a safety
coordinator at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 7 May.
[7]  Case 62541 is a 46 year-old nurse at Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH),
and is deployed at Ward 9D. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 27 April.
[8]  From 23 April 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term pass holders and
short-term visitors with recent travel history (including transit) to
India within the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore,
or transit through Singapore. From 1 May 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term
pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel history
(including transit) to Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka within
the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit
through Singapore.
