Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (18 Sep 2021)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (18 SEP 2021)


Published Date: 18 Sep 2021

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · 863 cases are currently warded in hospital. There are currently 105 |
| cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and 18 in  |
| critical condition in the intensive care unit (ICU).                  |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · Over the last 28 days, of the 10,017 infected individuals, 98.1%    |
| have no or mild symptoms, 1.7% requires oxygen supplementation, 0.2%  |
| requires ICU care, and 0.04% has died.                                |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · As of 17 September 2021, 82% of our population has completed their  |
| full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 84% has    |
| received at least one dose.                                           |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · As of 18 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected  |
| a total of 1,009 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, with   |
| 926 in the community, 78 in the migrant worker dormitories and 5      |
| imported cases.                                                       |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+





CONDITION OF HOSPITALISED CASES



    As of 18 September 2021, 12pm, 863 COVID-19 cases are currently
warded in hospital. Most are well and under observation. There are
currently 105 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation,
and 18 in critical condition in the ICU. Of those who have fallen very
ill, 100 are seniors above 60 years.



2.  Case 78675, a 90 year-old male Singaporean, has passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection on 17 September 2021. He had
been conveyed to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases on 17
September with symptoms, and tested positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. He had not been vaccinated against COVID-19, and had a
history of cancer, heart disease and pneumonia. In total, 60 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



3.   Some of our public hospitals have been experiencing a surge in the
number of patients who have rushed to their A&E departments with mild
acute respiratory infection (ARI) symptoms. We urge those who have mild
symptoms to avoid seeking treatment at the hospitals and instead consult
a General Practitioner (GP) at a Swab and Send Home (SASH) clinic
instead. The SASH GPs are capable of assessing the severity of their
symptoms and perform COVID-19 diagnostic tests when needed to confirm
their status. This allows those with more severe illnesses and who are
in need of urgent care to be attended to quickly and helps to preserve
hospital capacity for those who truly need hospital care.



FIGURE 1: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation¹
[18SepFig1]

4.  Over the last 28 days, the percentage of local cases who were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms is 98.1%. 177 cases required oxygen
supplementation, 18 had been in the ICU, and 4 died, of whom none was
fully vaccinated².



FIGURE 2: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition³
[18SepFig2]

FIGURE 3: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised¹, by Age Groups
[18SepFig3]

UPDATE ON VACCINATION PROGRESS



5.  As of 17 September 2021, 82% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 84% has
received at least one dose.



6.  We have administered a total of 8,922,035 doses of COVID-19 vaccines
under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech Comirnaty and
Moderna), covering 4,571,939 individuals, with 4,444,525 individuals
having completed the full vaccination regimen. In addition, 182,716
doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health Organization’s
Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered, covering 86,968
individuals.



LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 CASES



7.  As of 18 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected a
total of 1,009 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, comprising
926 community cases, 78 dormitory residents cases and 5 imported cases.



A)  ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING



8.  We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL⁴

REMARKS

Pfizer Asia Pacific Pte Ltd

7

22

Workplace transmission, no evidence of spread beyond worksite. Of the 22
cases, 20 are staff and 2 are cleaners. The facility is not involved in
vaccine production.

NSL OilChem

21

27

Workplace transmission with further spread to household contacts of
cases. Of the 27 cases, 25 are staff and 2 are household contacts of
cases.

Sembcorp Marine Admiralty Yard

2

39

Workplace transmission with further spread to household contacts of
cases. Of the 39 cases, 35 are staff and 4 are household contacts of
cases.

Blue Stars Dormitory

3

104

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents with no evidence of
spread beyond dormitory. All residents are being tested.

Chinatown Complex

3

270

Ongoing workplace transmission, including 195 stallholders and
assistants, 12 working as cleaners/ Safe Distancing Ambassador, 63
household contacts of workers. All new cases have been quarantined.

Avery Lodge Dormitory

3

98

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. Residents have been placed on Movement Restriction
Order, and are being tested.

Toa Payoh Bus Interchange staff

5

251

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters.

Boon Lay Bus Interchange staff

3

237

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters.

All Saints Home Jurong East

1

14

Intra-home transmission amongst residents and staff. Of the 14 cases, 11
are residents and 3 are staff.

11 Tuas Ave 10 dormitory

2

28

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. New cases have been quarantined.

B)  SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES



9.  There are 1,004 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19 infection
in Singapore, with 926 in the community and 78 in the migrant worker
dormitories. Amongst the local cases today are 269 seniors who are above
60 years.

FIGURE 5: Number of Local Cases by Age
[18SepFig5]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES



10.  There are a total of 5 imported cases, who have already been placed
on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. Of
these, 1 was detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 4 developed the
illness during SHN or isolation.

FIGURE 6: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/

Detected during SHN or Isolation
[18SepFig6]

11. Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 SEPTEMBER 2021

[1] Includes all cases who are currently hospitalised.

[2] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals).

[3] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days.

[4] Includes new cases added today.
