Five Charged for Covid-19 Related Offences



FIVE CHARGED FOR COVID-19 RELATED OFFENCES


Published Date: 15 Mar 2021

         Five individuals have been charged in court for allegedly
committing COVID-19 related offences. One had allegedly failed to
self-isolate while awaiting the result of his COVID-19 test, thus
exposing others to the risk of COVID-19 infection. The remaining four
had allegedly gone to public places despite being issued with medical
certificates (MC) for acute respiratory symptoms, thus exposing others
to the risk of COVID-19 infection.[1]
NAMASIVAYAM SUNDAR

2.       On 20 March 2020, Namasivayam Sundar, a 57-year-old male
Singapore Permanent Resident, returned to Singapore following a business
trip to India, Paris and Dubai.He developed a fever on 21 March, and
self-medicated. As his condition did not improve, Sundar consulted a
doctor on 24 March, and was referred to the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases, where he underwent a COVID-19 test. Instead of
returning home to self-isolate while waiting for his test result, Sundar
allegedly travelled to Textile Centre located at 200 Jalan Sultan for a
one-and-a-half-hour body massage. Sundar was found to be positive for
COVID-19 infection on 25 March.

3.        Sundar was charged in court on 29 January 2021 for one count
under Section 21A(1) of the Infectious Diseases Act. His case is
scheduled for further mention on 12 March.

BAWANI D/O MURUGAIAH

4.        Between 22 July and 29 August 2020, Bawani D/O Murugaiah, a
37-year-old female Singaporean, was issued with five-day MCs on three
occasions by different general practitioner clinics, all of which stated
that she was required by law to stay at home throughout the duration of
her MC. The respective periods of her three MCs were as follows:

-   22 July to 26 July (diagnosed with upper respiratory tract
    infection);
-   18 August to 22 August (diagnosed with prolonged upper respiratory
    tract infection); and
-   25 August to 29 August (diagnosed with upper respiratory tract
    infection, borderline high blood pressure and swollen lymph node in
    her neck).

5.         While she was on MC on the aforementioned dates, Bawani had
allegedly left her home on six days on 23 July, 24 July, 19 August, 20
August, 21 August and 27 August, to work as a private hire car driver
when she ferried passengers in her vehicle.

6.          On 28 December, Bawani was charged in court for five counts
under Section 21A(1) of the Infectious Diseases Act and one count under
Regulation 3(2) read with Regulation 3(3) of the Infectious Diseases
(COVID-19-Stay Orders) Regulations 2020. She appeared in court again on
22 February 2021, and her case has been scheduled for further mention in
court on 22 March.

ABDUL RASHID BIN SUGIANTO

7.         On 2 June 2020, Abdul Rashid Bin Sugianto, a 30-year-old
male Singaporean, visited a clinic and was given a five-day MC from 2
June to 6 June for displaying symptoms of acute upper respiratory tract
infection. The following day, Rashid visited another clinic where he was
again diagnosed with acute respiratory infection and was issued with
another five-day MC from 3 June to 7 June.

8.          Rashid allegedly left his home on three separate occasions
on 3 June, 4 June and 5 June during his period of MC to visit Tampines
West Community Centre and Geylang.

9.           Rashid was charged in court on 6 January 2021 for three
counts under Section 21A(1) of the Infectious Diseases Act.He appeared
in court again on 17 February, and his case has been scheduled for
further Pre-Trial Conference in court on 11 March.

ANG SIU YEN

10.           On 24 October 2020, Ang Siu Yen, a 22-year-old female
Singapore Permanent Resident, visited a clinic and was diagnosed with
upper respiratory tract infection. She was given a four-day MC from 24
October to 27 October. Ang’s MC stated that she had acute respiratory
infection symptoms and was required by law to stay at home for the
duration of the MC.

11.           While she was on MC, Ang had allegedly left home on 24
October and 25 October to go to a supermarket in Junction Nine Shopping
Mall; Bugis Junction and the Yew Tee area.

12.           Ang is scheduled to be charged in court on 15 March 2021
for two counts under Regulation 3(2) read with Regulation 3(3) of the
Infectious Diseases (COVID-19-Stay Orders) Regulations 2020.

FOO SUAN RONG, NICK

13.        On 16 September 2020, Foo Suan Rong, Nick, a 20-year-old male
Singaporean, visited a polyclinic and was diagnosed with acute
respiratory infection. He was given a three-day MC from 16 September to
18 September. Foo’s MC stated that he had acute respiratory tract
infection and he was required by law to stay at home for the duration of
the MC.

14.         After his visit to the polyclinic, Foo allegedly went to ION
Orchard, Orchard Central, Bugis MRT station and Admiralty MRT station
instead of returning home. On 17 September, Foo had allegedly left home
to go to Woodlands and Somerset area.

15.          Foo is scheduled to be charged in court on 15 March 2021
for one count under Section 21A(1) of the Infectious Diseases Act and
one count under Regulation 3(2) read with Regulation 3(3) of the
Infectious Diseases (COVID-19 Stay Orders) Regulations 2020.

EXERCISING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

16.  Any person convicted of an offence under the Infectious
Diseases Act,  or Stay Orders Regulations is liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 or up to six months’ imprisonment, or both.

17.  We urge individuals to adhere to the prevailing measures, and
to stay at home for the duration of MC issued for the episode of
illness, to prevent putting our loved ones and others in the community
at risk of infection. The Ministry of Health will not hesitate to take
strict enforcement action against those who place the public at risk of
COVID-19 infection by failing to comply with the Infectious Diseases
Act,  or the Stay Orders Regulations.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The information in this press release is based on investigations.
None of the accused persons has admitted to either the relevant
information or charge against him/her.
