1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 11 Apr 2021

1.     As of 11 April 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 1 new case of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. The case resides in a dormitory and there are no new cases in
the community. There are 19 imported cases, who had already been placed
on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. All new cases today
are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and
surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



0

1



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

19



19

0



0

19

TOTAL

20















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
stable at 2 cases per week in the past 2 weeks. The number of unlinked
cases in the community has also remained stable at 2 cases per week in
the past 2 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as
well as the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 175 confirmed cases reported from 5 April to 11
April, 68 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 74 have
tested negative, and 33 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today who is currently unlinked.

Case 61822 is a 23 year-old male Indian national who is a Work Permit
holder employed by Seafront Support Company Pte Ltd as a lashing
specialist. He resides in a dormitory located at Brani Terminal Avenue.

He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 7 April as
part of Rostered Routine Testing (RRT). His pooled test result came back
positive for COVID-19 the next day, and he was immediately isolated. An
individual test was done on 9 April, and his test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. He was subsequently
conveyed in an ambulance to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases.
His earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 24 March – were all
negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result has come back
positive but we have assessed that this is likely a current infection.

Case 61822 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 25 January,
and the second dose on 17 February. This likely accounts for his lack of
symptoms, and positive serology test as he has produced antibodies
following the vaccination. This case is a reminder that it is possible
for vaccinated individuals to get infected. But the vaccine is effective
in preventing symptomatic disease for the vast majority of those
vaccinated. Further research is required to determine if the vaccination
will also prevent onward transmission of the infection. That is why we
cannot afford to let our guard down. Our existing key enablers – safe
management measures, testing, and contact tracing – continue to be
necessary and effective in helping us to mitigate spread and keep
community transmission low.

Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the case, including his dormitory and
workplace contacts, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and
will be tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that
we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests
for the close contacts to determine if the case could have been infected
by them

C) IMPORTED CASES: 19

Amongst the 19 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 61845) is a Singaporean and 5 (Cases 61811, 61814, 61833,
    61834 and 61835) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from
    India and Indonesia.
-   2 (Cases 61819 and 61823) are Dependant's Pass holders who arrived
    from India.
-   10 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India,
    Indonesia, Myanmar and the Philippines, of whom 4 (Cases 61826,
    61836, 61838 and 61839) are foreign domestic workers.
-   1 (Case 61817) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India for studies in Singapore.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.
4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.     13 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,335 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 58 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 230 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

11 APRIL 2021
