No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 13 Mar 2021

      As of 13 March 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 8 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. All new cases today are asymptomatic, and were detected
from our proactive screening and surveillance.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

8



8

0



0

8

TOTAL

8













2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 4 cases in the week before to 2 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 3 cases in
the week before to 2 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.   Amongst the 68 confirmed cases reported from 7 March to 13 March,
33 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 27 have tested
negative, and 8 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 8

Amongst the 8 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 60854) is a Singaporean and 1 (Case 60853) is a Singapore
    Permanent Resident who returned from India and Papua New Guinea.
-   1 (Case 60859) is a Student’s Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   1 (Case 60861) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from Bangladesh.
-   1 (Case 60852) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Bangladesh.
-   2 (Cases 60856 and 60860) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case
    60856 arrived from the US to work in Singapore. Case 60860 is a sea
    crew who arrived from Indonesia on a vessel, and had remained
    isolated until his COVID-19 test result came back positive and he
    was conveyed to the hospital.
-   1 (Case 60857) is a Special Pass holder, who is a sea crew. He
    arrived from Indonesia on a vessel, and was tested onboard without
    disembarking.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

4.   Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.   Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.   MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case 60138
cluster for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster
has now been closed.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.   11 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 59,961 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.   There are currently 17 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 80 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.

9.    Case 59858, a 61 year-old male Singaporean, has passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection on 12 March 2021. He had been in
the UAE for work, and returned to Singapore on 30 January. He developed
a cough just before departing the UAE and shortness of breath on the
same day, and tested positive for COVID-19 infection upon arrival in
Singapore. He had a past history of hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and
gout. The National Centre for Infectious Diseases has reached out to his
family and is extending assistance to them.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 MARCH 2021
