Pioneer and Merdeka Generation Seniors to Receive $278 Million In
Medisave Top-ups In July 2021



PIONEER AND MERDEKA GENERATION SENIORS TO RECEIVE $278 MILLION IN MEDISAVE TOP-UPS IN JULY 2021


Published Date: 21 Jun 2021

1.     Pioneer Generation (PG) and Merdeka Generation (MG) seniors will
receive MediSave top-ups totalling $278 million in July 2021.

2.     MediSave can be used to pay the premiums for MediShield Life and
other MediSave-approved insurance plans, as well as medical expenses
such as hospitalisation, day surgeries, and outpatient treatments.

3.     About 450,000 Pioneers and 500,000 MG seniors have benefitted
from MediSave top-ups as part of the PG and MG Packages, since their
launch in 2014 and 2019 respectively.

4.     The PG and MG MediSave top-ups are on top of the annual GST
Voucher – MediSave top-ups [1] for eligible Singaporeans aged 65 and
above.

ELIGIBLE PIONEERS WILL RECEIVE THE ENHANCED MEDISAVE TOP-UP OF UP TO
$900 FROM 2021

5.     From 2021, the Government will provide higher annual MediSave
top-ups of $250 to $900 to all Pioneers, compared to $200 to $800
previously. Pioneers will continue to receive these annual top-ups for
life. Additionally, older Pioneers (aged 82 years and above in 2021) who
have serious pre-existing conditions will receive further top-ups of $50
to $200 per year from 2021 to 2025 (see Table 1) to help them pay their
higher MediShield Life premiums. This was announced by the Ministry of
Health (MOH) on 21 December 2020 as part of our commitment to keep
premiums affordable for our Pioneers who have generally accumulated less
MediSave than younger Singaporeans. The top-ups for Pioneers will amount
to about $182 million this year. More information on the benefits of the
PG Package are at Annex A.

Table 1: Pioneer Generation Annual MediSave Top-Ups

YEAR OF BIRTH
(AGE IN 2021)

BEFORE 2021

2021 ONWARDS

NO SERIOUS PRE-EXISTING CONDITION

WITH SERIOUS PRE-EXISTING CONDITION[2]

Born before or in 1934
(87 and above)

$800

$900

Additional $200
(i.e. total $1,100)

Born in 1935 – 1939
(82 – 86)

$600

$700

Additional $50
(i.e. total $750)

Born in 1940 – 1944
(77 – 81)

$400

$500

Born in 1945 – 1949
(72 – 76)

$200

$250



7.     With these enhancements, Pioneers aged 87 and above in 2021 will
continue to see their MediShield Life premiums fully covered. Younger
Pioneers will have about two-thirds of their MediShield Life premiums
covered.

ELIGIBLE MG SENIORS WILL RECEIVE A MEDISAVE TOP-UP OF $200

8.     The MG Package, which was introduced in 2019, supports our MG
seniors to stay active and healthy and provides them with greater
assurance with healthcare costs in their silver years. This is the third
year that MG seniors are receiving their MediSave top-ups. More
information on the benefits of the Merdeka Generation Package are at
Annex B.

9.     MG seniors will receive $200 in MediSave top-ups every year from
2019 to 2023. The top-ups will amount to about $96 million this year.

MORE INFORMATION ON PG AND MG PACKAGES

10.     By end-June 2021, Pioneers and MG seniors will receive letters
informing them of the details of their MediSave top-ups for 2021, which
will be credited in July 2021. The letters will also inform them of
other benefits they are eligible for under the PG or MG Packages.

11.     More information on the PG Package and MG Package is available
at www.pioneers.gov.sg and www.merdekageneration.sg respectively.

12.     For clarifications, seniors may call or email:

a.  1800 2222 888 (PG and MG Packages); 1800 650 6060 (healthcare
    matters); or
b.  contactus@pioneers.gov.sg / contactus@merdeka.gov.sg.

ISSUED BY THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND MINISTRY OF HEALTH

Singapore

21 JUNE 2021



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The amount of GST Voucher – MediSave that a senior citizen can
receive is dependent on age, Annual Value (AV) of place of residence,
and the number of properties owned. More information can be found at
https://www.gstvoucher.gov.sg.

[2] The additional MediSave top-up is only applicable from 2021 to 2025.
