Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (8 Aug)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (8 AUG)


Published Date: 08 Aug 2021

     As of 8 August 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 73 cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. 43 are linked to previous cases, and have already
been placed on quarantine. 9 are linked to previous cases and were
detected through surveillance. 21 are currently unlinked. Amongst the
cases are 5 seniors above 70 years who are unvaccinated or partially
vaccinated, and are at risk of serious illness.

2.  There are 5 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. All were
detected upon arrival in Singapore.

3.  In total, there are 78 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore
today.

FIGURE 1: Number of Local Unlinked Cases and Linked Cases by Already
Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance [1]

[fig 1]

PROGRESS OF NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

4.     As of 7 August 2021, 69% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines under the national
vaccination programme, and 79% has received at least one dose. In total,
we have administered a total of 8,042,596 doses of COVID-19 vaccines
under the national vaccination programme, covering 4,359,495
individuals, with 3,807,652 individuals having completed the full
vaccination regimen. In addition, 130,952 doses of Sinovac vaccines have
been administered as of 7 August 2021, covering 81,612 individuals.

FIGURE 2: Percentage of Total Population who Received At Least First
Dose[2] and Completed Full Regimen[3]

[fig 2]

FIGURE 3: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At Least
First Dose by Age Group

[fig 3]

FIGURE 4: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen of
COVID-19 Vaccine by Age Group

[fig 4]

FIGURE 5: Total number of doses administered
[fig 5]

CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.    542 cases are currently warded in hospital.Most are well and under
observation. There are currently 37 cases of serious illness requiring
oxygen supplementation, and 8 in critical condition in the intensive
care unit (ICU). 6 amongst these 45 cases are fully vaccinated. Of
these, 4 require oxygen supplementation while 2 require ICU care as they
have underlying medical conditions. 34 seniors above 60 years, of whom
29 are completely unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, have fallen very
ill.

FIGURE 6: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[fig 6]

FIGURE 7: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[fig 7]

6.    There is continuing evidence that vaccination helps to prevent
serious disease when one gets infected. Over the last 28 days, 95 local
cases required oxygen supplementation, were admitted to ICU or passed
away. 59 are unvaccinated, 27 are partially vaccinated and 9 are fully
vaccinated.

FIGURE 8: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition[4]

[fig 8]

FIGURE 9: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status4
[fig\ 9]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

7.    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 861 cases in the week before to 571 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 260
cases in the week before to 160 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving
average number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community
cases are 58.7 and 22.9 respectively.

FIGURE 10: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases[5]

[fig 10]

FIGURE 11: Local Cases in the Last 14 Days by Age Group and Vaccination
Status

[fig 11]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

There are a total of 5 imported cases today. All were detected upon
arrival in Singapore.

FIGURE 12: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[fig 12]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

9.    There are 2 new clusters today. In total, there are currently 130
active clusters, ranging between 3 and 1,147 infections.

FIGURE 13: Number of Active Clusters

[FIG 13]

FIGURE 14: List of Active Clusters

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[6]

Case 67738 _(new cluster)_

2

3

Case 67704 _(new cluster)_

2

3

Sin Ming 23 Coffee Shop

2

7

Chee Song Frozen Foods

1

6

Jurong Fishery Port/ Hong Lim Market & Food Centre* __

4

1,147

Case 67343

3

35

Marina Bay Sands Casino

1

63

Westlite Juniper Dormitory

1

31

North Bridge Road Market & Food Centre

1

13

Nimble/Knead

3

7

Elsie’s Kitchen

1

5

JEM

1

5

Case 67651

1

7

CHIJ Katong Convent

5

8

Case 66542

1

4

Case 67436

1

7

Case 65882

1

5

Case 67283

2

9

Case 67582

2

9

Case 66244

0

3

Changi General Hospital

0

4

Kian Hiap Construction

0

14

Case 66764

0

4

Case 66804

0

6

Case 66844

0

9

Case 67425

0

4

Home’s Favourite Pte Ltd

0

15

Samy’s Curry Restaurant

0

57

Case 67278

0

5

Case 67276

0

7

Case 67476

0

6

Case 66998 __

0

4

Case 65687

0

3

Case 66996

0

3

Case 67143

0

3

Case 67161

0

3

Case 67388

0

3

Case 67471

0

5

Case 67534

0

4

Case 66449

0

15

Westlite Mandai Dormitory

0

10

Case 67041

0

6

Case 67051

0

5

Punggol Primary School

0

16

Zuellig Pharma

0

8

Case 66707

0

5

Case 66766

0

3

Case 66922

0

3

Case 67014

0

3

Case 67069

0

3

Case 67236

0

3

Case 66774

0

7

Case 67048

0

8

Case 66567

0

21

Case 65999

0

5

Institution S2 Selarang Park Complex __

0

8

KTV lounges/clubs

0

252

Case 65972

0

4

Case 66940

0

4

Case 67017

0

3

Case 67078

0

3

Case 67227

0

3

Seng Leong Steel (Ent) Pte Ltd

0

5

Case 66754

0

5

Case 67085

0

4

Case 67204

0

3

Case 67297

0

3

Case 65952

0

5

Case 66929

0

5

Case 65929

0

4

Case 66868

0

3

Case 66888

0

3

Case 66913

0

3

Case 67004

0

4

Yishun Community Hospital

0

4

Case 66391

0

3

Case 66713

0

3

Case 66784

0

4

Case 66807

0

5

Case 66851

0

5

Case 65751

0

8

Case 66623

0

3

Case 65793

0

3

Case 66240

0

4

Case 66790

0

3

Case 66995

0

3

Case 66473

0

4

Case 66464

0

7

Case 66370

0

4

Case 64697

0

76

Case 66293

0

3

Case 66142

0

3

Case 66450

0

3

Case 66458

0

4

Case 66482

0

4

Case 66915

0

6

Case 66538

0

4

Case 66517

0

3

Case 66487

0

4

Case 66468

0

3

Case 66462

0

3

Case 66215

0

4

Case 66106

0

3

Case 66377

0

5

Case 66435

0

6

Case 65893

0

6

Case 66413

0

4

Case 64752

0

8

PSC Express Pte Ltd

0

5

Case 66259

0

4

Case 65360

0

10

Case 65695

0

3

Case 65721

0

4

Case 66007

0

4

Apex Medical Centre (Jurong)

0

3

Case 65754

0

3

Case 65979

0

3

Case 65132

0

3

Case 66168

0

3

Case 65846

0

3

Case 65791

0

4

Case 65342

0

3

Case 65484

0

5

Case 65365

0

3

Case 64735

0

6

Case 65231

0

4

Case 64782

0

3

Case 64850

0

3

Khoi Grill & Hotpot __

0

8

Case 64642

0

3

* Yuhua Market & Hawker Centre and Taman Jurong Market are currently
linked to this cluster.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



[1] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[2] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[3] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine or one dose for vaccinated recovered individuals.

[4] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals). Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.
[5] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.
[6] Includes new cases added today.
