No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 11 Jan 2021

              As of 11 January 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 22 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 21 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

22



21

1



1

21

TOTAL

22















2.            Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 9 cases in the week before to 8 cases in the past week.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 3 cases
in the week before to 5 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.



CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 22

Amongst the 22 imported cases,

2 (Cases 59184 and 59185) are Singaporeans and 2 (Cases 59171 and 59183)
are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from India.

3 (Cases 59169, 59178 and 59182) are Dependant’s Pass holders who
arrived from India and the UAE.

1 (Case 59181) is a Student’s Pass holder who arrived from Indonesia.

10 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India and
Indonesia, of whom 2 (Cases 59189 and 59190) are foreign domestic
workers.

1 (Case 59175) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from India.

3 (Cases 59172, 59173 and 59191) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders.
Cases 59172 and 59191 arrived from the US and India respectively to
visit their family members who are Singaporeans or Singapore Permanent
Residents. Case 59173 arrived from India to visit her son who is
studying in Singapore.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

Cases 59176 and 59180 are sea crew who worked onboard bunker tanker
_NewOcean 6_. They had been identified as close contacts of Case
58812[1], and were placed on quarantine on 31 December 2020. They were
tested during quarantine and confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10
January.

Case 59170 is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Bangladesh on 14
December 2020 and served SHN at a dedicated facility until 28 December.
His swab done on 24 December during SHN was negative for COVID-19, and
another swab taken as part of Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) on 6
January was also negative. However another test on 8 January came back
positive for COVID-19 infection. His polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
test yielded a very high Ct value, which is indicative of a low viral
load. His serological test result has also come back positive. Given
that these indicate a likely past infection, we have classified this
case as imported. He is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the
virus RNA, which are no longer transmissible and infective to others.

3.         Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

4.          Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.          32 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,668 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

6.            There are currently 67 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 165 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 58812 is a ship crew who arrived from Indonesia onboard
_NewOcean 6_ on 17 December 2020. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 30 December.
