Covid-19 Healthcare Award to Recognise Healthcare Staff In the Fight
Against Covid-19



COVID-19 HEALTHCARE AWARD TO RECOGNISE HEALTHCARE STAFF IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19


Published Date: 05 Nov 2021

         To recognise their contribution and dedication in the COVID-19
pandemic, staff of publicly-funded healthcare organisations involved in
the delivery of healthcare services in the fight against COVID-19 will
receive a COVID-19 Healthcare Award of up to $4,000 each. This was
announced by Mr Ong Ye Kung, Minister for Health, at the National
Medical Excellence Awards (NMEA) ceremony today.



2.  The healthcare system and healthcare staff have been
under significant strain after over 20 months of fighting the COVID-19
pandemic. While riding the transmission wave is a necessary process to
living with COVID-19, the high number of cases has resulted in strong
demand for healthcare services and very high workload in the public
hospitals, including the intensive care units and emergency departments.
As various sectors begin to resume their full operations and with
society progressively restarting more activities, the healthcare sector
continues to face intense pressure as the last line of defence.



3.  The government has worked with the public healthcare
institutions to provide their staff with an award of up to $4,000 each.
It serves as a recognition of the contribution and dedication of
healthcare staff throughout this fight. Altogether, about 100,000 staff
from eligible publicly-funded healthcare organisations will receive the
award, including staff from the public healthcare clusters â€“ National
Healthcare Group, National University Health System, and SingHealth.



4.  The COVID-19 Healthcare Award will also be extended to
publicly-funded Community Care Organisations (CCOs) that provide
healthcare services. These include community hospitals that take in
COVID-19 patients and nursing homes and dialysis centres that have
expanded their capacity and worked tirelessly to keep vulnerable elderly
in need of nursing care out of hospitals and free up hospital beds.
These organisations have likewise been integral to our fight against
COVID-19, alongside the public healthcare institutions. The Ministry of
Health (MOH) will also extend a grant of $10,000 to each Public Health
Preparedness Clinic (PHPC), in recognition of their contributions in the
fight against COVID-19.



5.  MOH, the Agency for Integrated Care and the public
healthcare clusters are working through the implementation and more
details will be communicated to eligible staff through the clusters and
CCOs when ready. The Award will be given to staff of the public
healthcare institutions in December, and to PHPCs and eligible staff of
the CCOs in the first quarter of 2022.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

5 NOVEMBER 2021
