2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 09 Jun 2021

                  As of 9 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified that there are 2 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 1 is linked to previous cases, and has
already been placed on quarantine. The remaining case is currently
unlinked. The cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in
the dormitories. There are 2 imported cases, who have already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the
new cases today, 2 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

2



1

1



2

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

2



2

0



0

2

TOTAL

4















2.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 126
cases in the week before to 71 cases in the past week. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 26 cases in the
week before to 6 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 123 confirmed cases reported from 3 June to 9
June, 72 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 42 have
tested negative, and 9 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2

There are 2 cases in the community today, of whom 1 is linked to
previous cases and 1 is currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASE

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64114 is a 29 year-old male Myanmar national who works as a repair
worker at Grandwork Interior. He developed a fever on 1 June and sought
medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day.
He subsequently developed body aches on 4 June and returned to the same
GP clinic. On both occasions, he was not tested for COVID-19. He was
detected when he was tested on 5 June as part of Rostered Routine
Testing (RRT). His pooled test result came back positive for COVID-19 on
7 June, and an individual test was done on the same day. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 7 June. His earlier tests
from RRT – the last being on 8 May – were all negative for COVID-19
infection. His serology test result is positive. Case 64114 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 31 May.

NTUC FOODFARE (308 ANCHORVALE ROAD) CLUSTER

Already Quarantined:

Case 64117 is a 21 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Rice Garden (308 Anchorvale Road). He is a
workplace contact of Case 63874[1], and was placed on quarantine on 29
May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 30 May during quarantine and his test
result was negative. He subsequently developed a fever and cough on 7
June and reported his symptoms. He was tested for COVID-19 on 8 June and
his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same
day. His serology test result is pending.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 2

Amongst the 2 imported cases, 1 (Case 64118) is a Singaporean and 1
(Case 64119) is a Singapore Permanent Resident who returned from India
and Iraq.

They have already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were
tested while serving SHN.

4.  Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  38 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,740 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

7.  There are currently 158 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 291 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 34 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63874 is a 29 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a chef at Rice Garden (308 Anchorvale Road). He was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 29 May.
