9 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



9 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 30 Apr 2021

            As of 30 April 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 9 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 15 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 17 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 7 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

9



3

6



6

3

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

15



15

0



1

14

TOTAL

24













2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
increased from 10 cases in the week before to 35 cases in the past week.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 5
cases in the week before to 6 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 202 confirmed cases reported from 24 April to
30 April, 81 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 95
have tested negative, and 26 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9

There are 9 cases in the community today, of whom 8 are linked to
previous cases and 1 is currently unlinked.

Case 62627

Case 62627 is a 20 year-old male India national who is a student at the
National University of Singapore (NUS). He resides on the Yale-NUS
College campus, and last attended classes on 12 April. He had been in
India from 21 March 2020 to 20 January 2021, and was a close contact of
2 confirmed COVID-19 cases while he was in India.

He developed a fever, sore throat and body aches on 26 April and
self-isolated in his room. He was tested for COVID-19 by the NUS
University Health Centre on 28 April, and his result came back positive
on 29 April. His Ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low
viral load, and his serology test result has come back positive. He
could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA from a past
infection which are no longer transmissible and infective to others, but
given that we are not able to definitively conclude when he had been
infected, we will take all the necessary public health actions as a
precautionary measure.

CASE 61993 CLUSTER

Cases 62621 and 62622

Case 62621 is a 33 year-old female India national who is a Dependant’s
Pass holder. She is a homemaker, and is the spouse of Case 62063[1].
Case 62622, a 4 year-old girl, is their child.

As they had been identified as close contacts of 61993[2], they were
placed on quarantine on 15 April. They were tested for COVID-19
infection during quarantine on 16 April, and both their tests were
negative. They developed acute respiratory infection (ARI) symptoms on
28 April, and were tested again after reporting their symptoms. This
time, their test results came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 29
April and they were conveyed to KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital.

CASE 62553 CLUSTER

Case 62629

Case 62629 is a 41 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a sales
assistant at New Odense(s) Confectionery & Bakery. He is a household
contact of Case 62638.

He developed a fever and cough on 28 April and sought medical treatment
at a General Practitioner clinic where he was tested for COVID-19. As he
had been identified as a close contact of Case 62553[3], he was
contacted by MOH on 28 April and placed on quarantine. He reported his
symptom and was conveyed in an ambulance to Khoo Teck Puat Hospital. His
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 29 April. His
serology test result is negative.

Case 62638

Case 62638 is a 26 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a cleaner employed by Exceltec Property Management Pte Ltd, and
deployed at a community care facility at Tuas South. At work, she dons
full personal protection equipment (PPE), including N95 mask, face
shield, gown and gloves. She is a household contact of Case 62629 and a
colleague of Case 62553.

She developed a cough and sore throat on 28 April. As she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 62553, she was contacted by MOH on
28 April and placed on quarantine, and was tested for COVID-19 on the
same day. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
29 April and she was conveyed in an ambulance to Alexandra Hospital. Her
serology test result is negative.

CASE 62541 CLUSTER

Case 62615

Case 62615 is a 41 year-old female China national who works as a cleaner
at ISS Facility Services Pte Ltd, and is deployed to TTSH Ward 9D. She
is asymptomatic and was detected on 29 April as part of TTSH’s proactive
testing of staff in Ward 9D following the confirmation of Case 62541[4].
Her test came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her
serological test result has come back negative. Case 62615 received her
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 27 January, and the second dose on 22
February.

Case 62635

Case 62635 is a 77 year-old female Singaporean who was admitted to TTSH
Ward 9D on 22 April. She tested negative for COVID-19 on 26 April while
warded at TTSH. The next day, she was discharged to United Medicare
Centre (Toa Payoh) Nursing Home. On 28 April, as she had been identified
as a patient who had stayed in Ward 9D, she was isolated. She was tested
the next day and her test came back positive for COVID-19 infection.

TTSH has stopped all patient transfers to intermediate and long-term
care (ILTC) facilities until swabs for patients and staff in lockdown
wards are completed and cleared. MOH has reminded ILTC facilities to be
vigilant and closely monitor patients transferred from TTSH from 18
April onwards. This includes the isolation and/or segregation of these
transferred patients from the rest of the residents where possible and
close monitoring of their health condition. In addition, all prevailing
precautionary measures, including infection prevention and control
measures, adherence to Personal Protective Equipment guidelines, split
team arrangements for patient facing staff and visitation policies in
the respective ILTC facilities will continue.

Case 62643

Case 62643 is a 65 year-old female Singaporean who is a patient at TTSH,
and has been warded in Ward 9C since 19 April. She was detected as part
of TTSH’s proactive testing of patients on 29 April, and her result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. As a precautionary
measure, TTSH locked down Ward 9C, and tested all staff and patients who
had been in the ward. All other patients in Ward 9C have tested negative
for COVID-19 infection. Results for staff are pending.

Case 62648

Case 62648 is a 36 year-old male Singaporean who is a doctor at the
National Neuroscience Institute. He is asymptomatic, and was detected on
29 April as part of TTSH’s proactive testing of staff. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Case 62648
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 21 January, and the
second dose on 24 February.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 15

Amongst the 15 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 62658 and 62659) are Singaporeans and 2 (Cases 62657
    and 62660) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from
    India.
-   3 (Cases 62623, 62655 and 62656) are Dependant’s Pass holders who
    arrived from India and Nepal.
-   1 (Case 62662) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    Malaysia.
-   1 (Case 62654) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from Nepal.
-   6 (Cases 62607, 62610, 62630, 62632, 62644 and 62645) are Work
    Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia and the Philippines, all
    of whom are foreign domestic workers.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.  Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  13 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,751 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

7.  There are currently 113 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 251 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 62063 is a 35 year-old male Indian national who is a Work Pass
holder. He is the brother of Case 61993, and his household contact. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 April.

[2] Case 61993 is a 34 year-old male Indian national who is a senior
research fellow at the National University of Singapore. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 April.

[3] Case 62553 is a 39 year-old female Vietnam national who works as a
cleaner deployed at a community care facility at Tuas South. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 28 April.

[4] Case 62541 is a 46 year-old female Philippines national who is a
nurse at Tan Tock Seng Hospital, and is deployed at Ward 9D. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 April. There are 13 cases in
total linked to TTSH so far.
