Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (27 July)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (27 JULY)


Published Date: 27 Jul 2021

    As of 27 July 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are 136 cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection, of which 36 are linked to the Jurong Fishery Port cluster and
2 belong to the KTV cluster. Of the 136 cases today, 59 are linked to
previous cases, and have already been placed on quarantine. 22 are
linked to previous cases and were detected through surveillance. 55 are
currently unlinked. Amongst the cases are 3 seniors above 70 years who
are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, and are at risk of serious
illness.

2.   There are 3 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. 2 were
detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 1 developed the illness during
SHN or isolation.

3.   In total, there are 139 new cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore today.

FIGURE 1: Number of Community Unlinked Cases, and Linked Cases by
Already Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance, and Dormitory
Resident Cases [1]



[Figure 1]

CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

4.   545 cases are currently warded in hospital.Most are well and under
observation. There are currently 21 cases of serious illness requiring
oxygen supplementation, and 2 in critical condition in the intensive
care unit (ICU). 1 amongst these 23 cases is fully vaccinated, but
requires oxygen supplementation as she has underlying medical
conditions. 13 seniors above 60 years, of whom 12 are completely
unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, have fallen very ill.

FIGURE 2: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[Fig 2]

FIGURE 3: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[Fig 3]



5.    There is continuing evidence that vaccination helps to prevent
serious disease when one gets infected. Over the last 28 days, 27 local
cases required oxygen supplementation, were admitted to ICU or passed
away. 14 are unvaccinated,12 are partially vaccinated and 1 is fully
vaccinated.



FIGURE 4: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition[2]

[Fig 4]

FIGURE 5: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status²

[Fig 5]



SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

6.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 642 cases in the week before to 967 cases in the past week. We are
likely to continue to see high number of cases in the coming days as we
step up efforts to detect them to contain their spread in the community.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 46
cases in the week before to 182 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving
average number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community
cases are 112.1 and 26 respectively.

FIGURE 6: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases [3]

[Fig 6]

FIGURE 7: Community Unlinked and Linked Cases in the Last 14 Days, by
Detection Method

[Fig 7]

FIGURE 8: Local Cases in the Last 14 Days by Age Group and Vaccination
Status

[Fig 8]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

7.   There are a total of 3 imported cases today. 2 were detected upon
arrival in Singapore, while 1 developed the illness during SHN or
isolation.

FIGURE 9: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[Fig 9]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

8.     There are 4 new clusters today. In total, there are currently 39
active clusters, ranging between 3 and 902 infections.

FIGURE 10: Number of Active Clusters

[Fig 10]



FIGURE 11: List of Active Clusters

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[1]

Case 65695 _(new cluster)_

2

3

Case 66259 _(new cluster)_

2

3

Westlite Juniper Dormitory _(new cluster)_

8

9

Cleaner at Punggol Primary School _(new cluster)_

3

4

Case 65893

1

5

Samy’s Curry Restaurant

6

28

KTV lounges/clubs

2

245

Jurong Fishery Port/ Hong Lim Market & Food Centre* __

36

902

Marina Bay Sands Casino

5

40

Case 64697

3

73

Case 65360

2

10

Case 65721

0

4

Case 65751

0

4

Case 65929

0

3

Case 65972

0

3

Case 66007

0

4

Apex Medical Centre (Jurong)

0

3

Case 65754

0

3

Case 65979

0

3

Case 65132

0

3

Case 66168

0

3

Case 65846

0

3

Case 65791

0

4

Case 65342

0

3

Case 65484

0

5

Case 65365

0

3

Case 64735

0

6

Case 65231

0

4

Case 64599

0

6

Case 64752

0

7

PSC Express Pte Ltd

0

4

Case 64782

0

3

Case 64850

0

3

Khoi Grill & Hotpot __

0

8

Case 64642

0

3

Case 64388

0

3

105 Henderson Crescent

0

22

Changi General Hospital

0

20

Case 64478

0

3

*Please refer to Annex A for the affected markets and food centres.

Collection of ART self-test kits for visitors to selected markets and
food centres

9.     MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection involving
markets and food centres which are likely seeded by fishmongers who
visited Jurong Fishery Port to collect their stock and sell at the
markets and food centres. As an added layer of ringfencing to help to
identify cases and prevent further transmission, MOH is working with the
People’s Association to distribute antigen rapid test (ART) self-test
kits to individuals who had visited selected markets and food centres in
the last 14 days, such as residents living in the vicinity of these
centres. The collection will run from 28 to 29 July 2021 at Residents’
Committee Centres in the vicinity of the following locations:

-   Teban Gardens Market & Food Centre (37A Teban Gardens Road); and
-   216 Bedok Food Centre and Market (216 Bedok North Street 1).



10.    Eligible persons are strongly encouraged to collect and perform
self-testing using these ART kits. Please refer to
https://www.gowhere.gov.sg/art to check on the nearest Residents’
Committee Centre for self-collection.

PROGRESS OF NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

11.      As of 26 July 2021, we have administered a total of 7,256,331
doses of COVID-19 vaccines under the national vaccination programme. The
total number of doses administered was 7,256,331, covering 4,254,789
individuals. 3,122,180 individuals have completed the full vaccination
regimen, consisting of 120,638 recovered persons who received at least
one dose and 3,001,542 who received their second dose. In addition,
89,047 doses of Sinovac vaccines have been administered as of 26 July
2021, covering 69,769 individuals.

FIGURE 12: Progress of National Vaccination Programme

[fig 12]

FIGURE 13: Percentage of Total Population who Received At Least First
Dose [5] and Completed Full Regimen [6]
[fig 13]

FIGURE 14: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At Least
First Dose by Age Group

[fig 14]

FIGURE 15: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen of
COVID-19 Vaccine by Age Group

[fig 15]



Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[2] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals). Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.

[3] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[5] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[6] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine or one dose for vaccinated recovered individuals.
