27 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



27 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 18 May 2021

1.     As of 18 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 27 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection, of whom 16 are linked to previous cases,
and 11 are currently unlinked. Amongst them, 14 had already been placed
on quarantine earlier. The cases are in the community, and there are no
new cases in the dormitories. There are 11 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 13 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 25 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

27



14

13



25

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

11



11

0



0

11

TOTAL

38















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 40 cases in the week before to 163 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 10
cases in the week before to 48 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 248 confirmed cases reported from 12 May to 18 May,
75 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 143 have tested
negative, and 30 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 27

There are 27 cases in the community today, of whom 16 are linked to
previous cases and 11 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63376 is a 46 year-old female Singaporean who is an investment
banker at DBS at Marina Bay Financial Tower. She developed fever, cough
and body aches on 16 May, and sought medical treatment at a General
Practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day, where she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
17 May. Her serology test result is negative.

Case 63379 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who works at the Ministry
of Home Affairs. She developed a cough on 13 May, and anosmia on 14 May.
On 16 May, she sought medical treatment at a GP clinic, where she tested
positive for her antigen rapid test (ART). She was immediately isolated
and a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test was taken on the same day.
Her PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May.
Her serology test result is pending. She has tested preliminarily
positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory
tests. Case 63379 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 8 May.

Case 63382 is a 95 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
developed a cough on 15 May, and was conveyed to Changi General Hospital
the next day for an unrelated condition. She was tested for COVID-19 and
her test came back positive on 17 May. Her serology test result is
pending.

Case 63392 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who is a manager at
Corner Stone Global Partners Pte Ltd but has been working from home
since 11 May. She developed body aches on 15 May, and a fever and runny
nose the next day. On 16 May, she sought medical treatment at a GP
clinic, where she tested positive for her ART. She was immediately
isolated and a PCR test was taken on the same day. Her PCR test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. Her serology test
result is pending.

Case 63399 is a 35 year-old male Malaysia national who is a kitchen crew
at Kota Zheng Zong Bak Kut Teh (Serangoon Gardens). He developed body
aches on 15 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic, and was
diagnosed with myalgia. He subsequently developed a cough on 17 May and
sought medical treatment at the same GP clinic. An ART and PCR test were
taken day, which both came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17
May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63403 is a 51 year-old female Singaporean who is a clinic assistant
at Dorothy’s Baby & Child Clinic. She developed a fever, flu and cough
on 15 May and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic on 17 May, where
she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test result is pending.
Case 63403 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 15 April, and
the second dose on 14 May.

Case 63409 is a 31 year-old male Singaporean who works at Courts
(Funan). He developed a runny nose, sore throat and cough on 13 May but
did not seek medical treatment until 15 May when he developed anosmia.
He was tested for COVID-19, and his test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 17 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63412 is a 43 year-old male China national who works at Jin Tai
Tong Food Industries Pte Ltd. He developed a fever, sore throat, body
aches and cough on 17 May and sought medical treatment at Raffles
Hospital on the same day. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63413 is a 26 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
logistics officer at DCSS Technology Pte Ltd. He developed a fever on 16
May, and sought treatment at a GP clinic on the next day, where he
tested positive for his ART. He was immediately isolated and a PCR test
was taken on the same day. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology result is pending.

Case 63414 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who works as a vending
machine loader at Warburg Pte Ltd, and a food delivery rider for
Deliveroo and Grab. He developed a fever, cough and runny nose on 16
May, and sought treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, and was tested
for COVID-19 on 17 May. He tested positive for his ART, and was
immediately isolated and a PCR test was taken on the same day. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology
result is pending. Case 63414 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 3 April, and the second dose on 24 April.

Case 63417 is a 38 year-old female Singaporean who works as an analyst
at HSBC but has been working from home since 6 May. She developed a
fever, chills and body aches on 13 May, and sought treatment at a GP
clinic on 17 May, where she tested positive for her ART. She was
immediately isolated and a PCR test was taken on the same day. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. Her serology
result is pending. Case 63417 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 10 May.

CHANGI AIRPORT TERMINAL 3 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63387 is a 26 year-old female Singaporean who is an IT engineer at
Accenture but has been working from home since 24 April. She is a family
member and household contact of Case 63097[1], and was placed on
quarantine on 11 May. She developed a fever on 11 May and was tested for
COVID-19 when she reported her symptoms, but her result came back
negative for COVID-19 infection. She developed fever again on 15 May,
and was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 17 May. Her serology result is negative.

Case 63389 is a 36 year-old female Malaysia national who works at Toast
and Curry Sentosa. She is a household contact of Case 63235[2], and was
placed on quarantine on 14 May. She is asymptomatic, and was detected
when she was tested for COVID-19 on 16 May during quarantine. She tested
positive for her ART on the same day, and her PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. Her serology test result is
pending. She has tested preliminarily positive for the B.1.617 variant,
and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63416 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Robinson 77. He is a
close contact of Case 63192[3], and was placed on quarantine on 14 May.
He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on
17 May during quarantine. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is pending.

LEARNING POINT CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63386 is a 37 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is
self-employed. She is a family member and household contact of Case
63282[4], and served as his caregiver when he was quarantined on 13 May.
She developed a cough on 15 May and was tested for COVID-19 on 16 May.
Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. Her
serology test result is pending.

Case 63390 is a 43 year-old female Singaporean who works as an executive
at Zespri Hub, but has been working from home since end of April. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 63285[5], and served as
her caregiver when she was quarantined on 13 May. She developed a fever
on 16 May and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. Her serology test
result is pending.

Case 63391 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Catholic
High School and attended Case 63131’s[6] classes at Learning Point
located at Parkway Centre. He was identified as a close contact of Case
63131 and was placed on quarantine on 12 May. He developed a cough on
the same day and was tested for COVID-19 when he reported his symptom,
and his test result came back negative for COVID-19 infection. He
developed a fever on 15 May, and was tested for COVID-19 on 16 May. His
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 63400 is a 7 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at CHIJ
(Katong) Primary School and had last gone to school on 11 May. She also
attends student care at Seedlings World Student Care @ Frankel, and was
identified as a close contact of Cases 63188[7] and 63353[8], and was
placed on quarantine on 14 May. She developed a fever on 16 May and
reported her symptom, and was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. She
also developed a sore throat on 17 May. Her serology test result is
pending.

CASE 63290 CLUSTER[9]

Already quarantined:

Case 63383 is a 7 year-old male Malaysia national who is a student at
Yuhua Primary School and had last gone to school on 14 May. He is a
family member and household contact of Cases 63290 and 63384. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63290, he was placed on
quarantine on 15 May. He developed a fever, runny nose and cough on 16
May and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. His serology test result
is pending.

Case 63384 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who is a cook at
Spring Court Restaurant, and a family member and household contact of
Cases 63290 and 63383. He developed flu-like symptoms and anosmia on 12
May but did not seek medical treatment. As he had been identified as a
close contact of Case 63290, he was placed on quarantine on 15 May. He
was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 16 May during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
17 May. His serology test result is pending.

CASE 63304 CLUSTER[10]

Already quarantined:

Case 63381 is a 40 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker, and household contact of Case 63304 and was placed on
quarantine on 16 May. On the same day, she developed a fever, and was
tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 17 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63393 is a 2 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at My First
Skool (Westgate) and was last in school on 14 May. He is a family member
of Case 63304 and household contact of Case 63381, and was placed on
quarantine on 16 May. He developed a cough on 16 May and was tested for
COVID-19 on the same day. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 on 16 May. His serology test result is pending.

CASE 63357 CLUSTER[11]

Already quarantined:

Case 63408 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member and household contact of Cases 63357 and 63363[12].
She developed a fever, headache, cough and body aches on 15 May, and
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on 16 May, where she tested
positive for her ART. She was immediately isolated and a PCR test was
taken on the same day. Her PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 17 May.

CASE 63236 CLUSTER[13]

Already quarantined:

Case 63370 is an 18 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at the
ITE College Central. She is a family member and household contact of
Case 63236 and was placed on quarantine on 14 May. She developed a fever
and runny nose on 15 May, and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day.
Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. Her
serology test result is negative.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63388 is a 21 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
at The Goodburger Food Truck. He had last gone to work on 15 May. He is
a close contact of Case 63336[14] and was placed on quarantine on 16
May. He developed a fever, cough and sore throat on the same day. He
reported his symptoms, and was tested for COVID-19. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 on 17 May. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 63406 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who works as a bank
officer at Mizuho Bank Ltd, and had last gone to work on 7 May. She is a
close contact of Case 63276[15] and was placed on quarantine on 15 May.
She was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May during quarantine and her test
result came back positive on the same day. She developed a fever and
sore throat the next day. Her serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63377 is a 59 year-old male Singaporean who works as a financial
planner at Great Eastern, and is a family member and household contact
of Case 63379. He developed a cough on 13 May, and anosmia on 14 May. On
16 May, he sought medical treatment at a GP clinic, where he tested
negative for his ART, but a PCR test was also taken on the same day. His
PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 17 May. His
serology test result is pending. H has tested preliminarily positive for
the B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests. Case
63377 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 8 May.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 11

Amongst the 11 imported cases,

-   3 (Cases 63385, 63404 and 63405) are Singaporeans and 3 (Cases
    63398, 63411 and 63415) are Singapore Permanent Residents who
    returned from France, India, Myanmar, the UAE and the UK.
-   1 (Case 63410) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from the
    UAE.
-   1 (Case 63401) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from the
    Philippines.
-   3 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia and the
    Philippines, of whom 2 (Cases 63373 and 63380) are foreign domestic
    workers.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
Additional Precautionary Measures at JEM and Westgate
6.     Our epidemiological investigations have found that a few COVID-19
cases had visited JEM and Westgate during their infectious period. As a
precautionary measure, we will conduct special testing operations for
staff who work in both locations. We will also offer free COVID-19
testing for members of the public who had visited JEM and Westgate from
10 May to 14 May. MOH will progressively inform these individuals via
SMS notification with information on how to book an appointment for
their test. All visitors to JEM and Westgate from 10 May to 14 May are
also advised to monitor their health closely for 14 days from their date
of visit. They are encouraged to visit a Regional Screening Centre or
“Swab and Send Home” (SASH) Public Health Preparedness Clinic for a free
COVID-19 test if they feel unwell.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.     11 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,134 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
8.     There are currently 220 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 5 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 266 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH

18 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63097 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner and trolley handler at
Changi Airport Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 11 May.

[2] Case 63235 is a 25 year-old female Malaysia national who works as an
assistant cook at Kopitiam located at Changi Airport Terminal 3. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14 May.

[3] Case 63192 is a 53 year-old female China national who is employed by
Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Robinson 77. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[4] Case 63282 is an 8 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is
a student at Yu Neng Primary School and attended classes at Learning
Point. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[5] Case 63285 is an 8 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
St Margaret’s Primary School and attended classes at Learning Point. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[6] Case 63131 is a 50 year-old female Singaporean who works as a tutor
at Learning Point. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12
May.

[7] Case 63188 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Andrew’s Junior School, and attended classes at Learning Point. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[8] Case 63353 is a 7 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Maha Bodhi School. She also attends student care at Seedlings World
Student Care @ Frankel. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 May.

[9] Case 63290 is a 64 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is currently unemployed. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
15 May.

[10] Case 63304 is a 35 year-old female Portugal national who works as a
sales personnel at Sanofi-Aventis. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 May.

[11] Case 63357 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as an IT
engineer at AbbVie Operations Singapore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[12] Case 63363 is a 57 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
engineer at 3M Innovation Singapore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[13] Case 63236 is a 53 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
personal chauffeur. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14
May.

[14] Case 63336 is a 22 year-old female Singaporean who works at Invade
Industry Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16
May.

[15] Case 63276 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who is an accountant
at 3R Corporation Pte Ltd, and works from home. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 15 May.
