22 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



22 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 23 May 2021

1.     As of 23 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 22 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 19 are linked to previous cases, amongst
which 12 have already been placed on quarantine, and 7 were detected
through surveillance. The remaining 3 are currently unlinked. 21 are in
the community, and 1 resides in a dormitory. There are 3 imported cases,
who had already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 10 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 15 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

21



12

9



15

6

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



0

1



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

3



3

0



0

3

TOTAL

25















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 131 cases in the week before to 182 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 30
cases in the week before to 46 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 239 confirmed cases reported from 17 May to 23 May,
52 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 150 have tested
negative, and 37 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 21

There are 21 cases in the community today, of whom 19 are linked to
previous cases and 2 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63609 is a 60 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 21
May as part of our testing operations for residents of 506 Hougang
Avenue 8. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
22 May. Her serology test result is pending. Case 63609 received her
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 29 March and the second dose on 19
April.

Case 63623 is a 74 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
developed body aches, vomiting and chills on 19 May, and sought medical
treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day, but was
not tested for COVID-19 as she did not report any acute respiratory
infection (ARI) symptoms. Her condition worsened on 22 May, and she was
conveyed to Ng Teng Fong General Hospital where she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. Her serology test result is pending. Case 63623 received
her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 20 April and the second dose on 11
May.

CHANGI AIRPORT TERMINAL 3 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63605 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School and was last in school on 12 May. He is a family member
of Cases 63139[1] and 63447[2]. As he had been identified as a close
contact of Case 63139, he was placed on quarantine on 12 May. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 14 May during quarantine and his test result was
negative for COVID-19 infection. He developed a fever on 21 May and was
tested for COVID-19 again. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63615 is a 45 year-old male Philippines national who is an engineer
at STMicroelectronics Pte Ltd, and was last at work on 8 May. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63055[3], he was placed on
quarantine on 10 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 12 May during
quarantine and his test result was negative for COVID-19 infection. He
developed anosmia on 20 May but did not report his symptom. He was
tested for COVID-19 again on 21 May during quarantine and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 63616 is a 67 year-old female Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park. She is a family
member of Cases 63382[4] and 63458[5], and was placed on quarantine on
17 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 19 May during quarantine and her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. That
night, she developed a fever. Her serology test result is negative.

JEM/ WESTGATE CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63597 is a 39 year-old female Malaysia national who is employed by
Eng Leng Contractors Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Westgate shopping mall. She
is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 21
May as part of our testing operations for those who worked in or visited
JEM and Westgate. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 22 May. She has tested preliminarily positive for the
B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests. Her serology
test result is pending.

Case 63600 is a 59 year-old male Singaporean who works as a music
teacher at Yamaha Music School. He developed a fever on 16 May but did
not seek medical treatment until 21 May when he went to a GP clinic, and
was tested for COVID-19. His antigen rapid test (ART) came back positive
on the same day, and he was immediately isolated. A polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) test administered on the same day came back positive for
COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63606 is a 31 year-old male India national who works as a delivery
truck driver at YHI Corporation Pte Ltd. He is asymptomatic, and was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May as part of our
testing operations for those who worked in or visited JEM and Westgate.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 63607 is a 44 year-old male India national who works at BlackRock
Advisors Singapore Pte Ltd. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he
was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May as part of our testing operations for
those who worked in or visited JEM and Westgate. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. He has tested
preliminarily positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is pending further
confirmatory tests. His serology test result is pending.

MARINA BAY SANDS CASINO DEALER CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63610 is a 32 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a hairdresser at 98 Hair House Pte Ltd, and was last at work on
17 May. She developed a fever, cough and sore throat on 19 May, and
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where she was
tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 22 May. Her serology test result is pending.

MCDONALD’S DELIVERY RIDERS CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63603 is a 31 year-old male China national who works as a delivery
rider for McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias Community Club). He is a workplace
contact of Cases 63535[6] and 63569[7], and was placed on Leave of
Absence by his employer on 20 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May,
and was placed on quarantine on the same day. He developed chills that
night but did not report his symptom. On 22 May, he developed a cough
and fatigue. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 22 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63624 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias Community Club). He is a
workplace contact of Cases 63535 and 63569. He developed a headache and
fatigue on 18 May. He was placed on Leave of Absence by his employer on
21 May and tested for COVID-19 on the same day. He was placed on
quarantine on 21 May, but did not report his symptoms. He developed a
cough on 22 May, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection ton the same day. His serology test result is pending.

SMS INFOCOMM CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63620 is a 27 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at St Luke’s Hospital, and was last at work on 12
May.  She is a family member and household contact of Case 63462[8],
and was placed on quarantine on 19 May. She developed a fever, sore
throat, blocked nose and anosmia on 20 May, and was tested for COVID-19
on 21 May during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 22 May. Her serology test result is negative for
the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case
63620 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 29 January and the
second dose on 25 February.

TAN TOCK SENG HOSPITAL WARD 9D CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63617 is a 78 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Case 63007[9], and was
placed on quarantine on 8 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 9 May and
her test result came back negative on the same day. She was tested again
on 21 May even though she is asymptomatic and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. Her serology test result is
negative.

CASE 63236 CLUSTER[10]

Already quarantined:

Case 63621 is a 4 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at Heart
Field Kindergarten and had last gone to school on 12 May. As she had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63236, she was placed on
quarantine on 14 May. She developed a fever on 19 May but her symptom
was not reported to MOH. She was detected when she was tested on 21 May
during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 22 May. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63304 CLUSTER[11]

Already quarantined:

Case 63598 is a 41 year-old male Singaporean who works as a manager at
Sure Clean Pte Ltd, and was last at work on 12 May. He is a family
member and household contact of Case 63304, and was placed on quarantine
on 16 May. He developed a fever and cough on 21 May, and was tested for
COVID-19 when he reported his symptoms. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test result is
negative.

CASE 63392 CLUSTER[12]

Already quarantined:

Case 63601 is a 48 year-old male Singaporean who is self-employed and
works from home. He developed a cough on 14 May and sought treatment at
a GP clinic, where he tested negative for COVID-19. As he had been
identified as a family member and household contact of Case 63392, he
was placed on quarantine on 17 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 22 May
during quarantine, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. His serology test result has come back
positive but we have assessed that this is likely a current infection.

CASE 63479 CLUSTER[13]

Already quarantined:

Case 63627 is a 38 year-old male Myanmar national who works as an
engineer at Asia Medical Enviro Services Pte Ltd and had last gone to
work on 19 May. As he had been identified as a household contact of Case
63479, he was placed on quarantine on 19 May. He underwent both an ART
and PCR test on 22 May, and both test results came back positive on the
same day. He developed a runny nose on 22 May. His serology test result
is pending. Case 63627 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 4
February and the second dose on 25 February.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63612 is a 29 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She is a close contact of Case 63515[14], and was
placed on quarantine on 20 May. She developed a fever and headache on 21
May evening, and reported her symptoms to MOH. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 22 May during quarantine, and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is negative.

Case 63618 is an 84 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and close contact of Case 63466[15], and was placed
on quarantine on 19 May. She is asymptomatic and was detected when she
was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May during quarantine. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. Her serology test
result is positive. Case 63618 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 6 March and the second dose on 27 March.

Case 63619 is a 52 year-old male Singaporean who works as a delivery
driver at RichLand Logistics Services Pte Ltd. He is a family member and
household contact of Case 63443[16], and was placed on quarantine on 18
May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 21 May during quarantine, and
developed a cough on the same day. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 22 May. His serology test result is negative
for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case
63619 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 9 May.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today who is currently unlinked.

Case 63622 is a 46 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
construction worker at H&W Communications Pte Ltd. He resides at Harvest
@ Woodlands (280 Woodlands Industrial Park E5). He is asymptomatic, and
was detected when he was tested on 22 May as part of Rostered Routine
Testing (RRT). His test result came back positive for COVID-19 on the
same day and he was immediately isolated. His earlier tests from RRT –
the last being on 8 May – were negative for COVID-19 infection. His
serology test result is negative.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 3

Amongst the 3 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 63596 and 63604) are Singapore Permanent Residents who
    returned from India.
-   1 (Case 63628) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Malaysia.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     17 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,294 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.     There are currently 242 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 256 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 32 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

23 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63139 is a 44 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker
who visited Changi Airport Terminal 3 on numerous occasions. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 May.

[2] Case 63447 is an 11 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 May.

[3] Case 63055 is a 59 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
Certis Cisco as an aviation security officer at Changi Airport Terminal
3. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 10 May.

[4] Case 63382 is a 95 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.

[5] Case 63458 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who works at as an
attendant at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[6] Case 63535 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias
Community Club). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 20 May.

[7] Case 63569 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for IVIC Logistic Pte Ltd and McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias
Community Club), and is a household contact of Cases 63534 and 63535. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 21 May.

[8] Case 63462 is a 49 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
factory operator at Sms Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd, and a close
contact of Case 63273. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
19 May.

[9] Case 63007 is a 52 year-old male Singaporean who had been warded in
Tan Tock Seng Hospital Ward 9D. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 8 May.

[10] Case 63236 is a 53 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
personal chauffeur. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14
May.

[11] Case 63304 is a 35 year-old female Portugal national who works as a
sales personnel at Sanofi-Aventis. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 May.

[12] Case 63392 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who is a manager at
Corner Stone Global Partners Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 17 May.

[13] Case 63479 is a 49 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is a homemaker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[14] Case 63515 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
technician at Singapore Refining Company Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 20 May.

[15] Case 63466 is a 59 year-old female Singaporean who works at Mary
Fashion and Trading. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 19
May.

[16] Case 63443 is a 24 year-old female Singaporean who works as a basic
care assistant at Alexandra Hospital. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 18 May.
