Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (16 Sep 2021)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (16 SEP 2021)


Published Date: 16 Sep 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · 837 cases are currently warded in hospital. There are currently 77  |
| cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and 12 in  |
| critical condition in the intensive care unit (ICU).                  |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · Over the last 28 days, of the 8,346 infected individuals, 98.2%     |
| have no or mild symptoms, 1.6% requires oxygen supplementation, 0.1%  |
| requires ICU care, and 0.05% died.                                    |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · As of 15 September 2021, 82% of our population has completed their  |
| full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 84% has    |
| received at least one dose.                                           |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| · As of 16 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected  |
| a total of 910 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, with 803 |
| in the community, 103 in the migrant worker dormitories and 4         |
| imported cases.                                                       |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+




CONDITION OF HOSPITALISED CASES



    As of 16 September 2021, 12pm, 837 COVID-19 cases are currently
warded in hospital. Most are well and under observation. There are
currently 77 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation,
and 12 in critical condition in the ICU. Of those who have fallen very
ill, 69 are seniors above 60 years.



2.   Case 71549, a 72 year-old female Singaporean, has passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection on 16 September 2021. She had
developed symptoms on 4 September, and tested positive for COVID-19
infection on 6 September. She had not been vaccinated against COVID-19,
and had a history of atypical chest pain, Graves’ disease, hypertension
and dyslipidaemia. In total, 59 have passed away from complications due
to COVID-19 infection.



FIGURE 1: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation¹
[16SepFig1png]

3.   Over the last 28 days, the percentage of local cases who were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms is 98.2%. 135 cases required oxygen
supplementation, 12 had been in the ICU, and 4 died, of whom none was
fully vaccinated².



FIGURE 2: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition³
[16SepFig2png]

FIGURE 3: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised¹, by Age Groups
[16SepFig3png]

UPDATE ON VACCINATION PROGRESS



4.   As of 15 September 2021, 82% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 84% has
received at least one dose.



5.   We have administered a total of 8,892,684 doses of COVID-19
vaccines under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech
Comirnaty and Moderna), covering 4,564,676 individuals, with 4,434,848
individuals having completed the full vaccination regimen. In addition,
180,118 doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health
Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered,
covering 86,813 individuals.



LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 CASES



6.   As of 16 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected
a total of 910 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, comprising
803 community cases, 103 dormitory residents cases and 4 imported cases.

A)  ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING



7.   We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL⁴

REMARKS

Blue Stars Dormitory

46

53

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. All residents are being tested.

Orange Valley Nursing Home (Simei)

1

14

All 14 cases are residents. Residents and staff on the affected levels
are being tested. All other residents and staff will also undergo
testing. New case has been quarantined.

11 Tuas Ave 10 dormitory

1

24

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. New case has been quarantined.

Ren Ci @ Bukit Batok Street 52

2

34

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 34 cases, 23 are
residents, 9 are staff and 2 are household contacts of cases. All
residents and staff are being tested. New cases have been quarantined.

Avery Lodge Dormitory

3

90

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents, detected through
proactive testing. Residents have been placed on Movement Restriction
Order, and are being tested. All new cases have been quarantined.

DHL Supply Chain Advanced Regional Centre (1 Greenwich Drive)

11

83

Workplace transmission with further spread to household contacts of
cases. Of the 83 cases, 67 are staff and 16 are household contacts of
cases. New cases are secondary family and social contacts.

Chinatown Complex

17

242

Ongoing workplace transmission, including 183 stallholders and
assistants, 8 working as cleaners/ Safe Distancing Ambassador, 50
household contacts of workers, and 1 patron detected through testing
operations.

Hu Lee Impex (Chin Bee Avenue)

1

72

Workplace transmission with further spread to household contacts of
cases. These include 57 staff (including 32 vegetable packers) and 15
household contacts of cases. Cases tapering now and comprise persons
under quarantine.

30 Sunview Way construction site

4

179

Workplace transmission, no evidence of spread beyond worksite. 3 new
cases have been quarantined.

Sembcorp Marine Tuas Boulevard Yard

3

105

Most cases are residents of 38 Kian Teck Drive dormitory. All new cases
have been quarantined.

Toa Payoh Bus Interchange staff

2

234

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters.

Tampines Bus Interchange staff

9

121

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters.

Punggol Bus Interchange staff

3

58

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters.

B)   SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

8.  There are 906 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection in Singapore, with 803 in the community and 103 in the migrant
worker dormitories. Amongst the local cases today are 244 seniors who
are above 60 years.



FIGURE 5: Number of Local Cases by Age
[16SepFig5png]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES



9.   There are a total of 4 imported cases, who have already been placed
on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. Of
these, 3 were detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 1 developed the
illness during SHN or isolation.



FIGURE 6: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/

Detected during SHN or Isolation
[16SepFig6png]

10. Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 SEPTEMBER 2021



[1] Includes all cases who are currently hospitalised.
[2] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals).

[3] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days.

[4] Includes new cases added today.
