No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 08 Mar 2021

1.     As of 8 March 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 13 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 12 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

13



13

0



1

12

TOTAL

13















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 3 cases in the week before to 4 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 2 cases in
the week before to 3 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 98 confirmed cases reported from 2 March to 8 March,
53 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 31 have tested
negative, and 14 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 13

Amongst the 13 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 60734 and 60752) are Singapore Permanent Residents who
    returned from India and Malaysia.
-   1 (Case 60735) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   1 (Case 60738) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India.
-   1 (Case 60733) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from the
    Philippines.
-   7 are Work Permit holders who arrived from India, Indonesia, Myanmar
    and the Philippines, of whom 5 (Cases 60748, 60753, 60755, 60757
    and 60758) are foreign domestic workers.
-   1 (Case 60739) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India to visit her relative who is a Singapore Permanent Resident.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     6 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 59,900 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 21 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 96 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
