15 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



15 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 28 May 2021

             As of 28 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 15 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 11 are linked to previous cases, amongst
whom 8 have already been placed on quarantine, and 3 were detected
through surveillance. The remaining 4 are currently unlinked. the cases
are in the community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories.
There are 15 imported cases, who have already been placed on Stay-Home
Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 17
are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and
surveillance, while 13 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

15



8

7



13

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

15



15

0



0

15

TOTAL

30















2.            Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 196 cases in the week before to 137 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased
from 46 cases in the week before to 23 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.
3.        Amongst the 200 confirmed cases reported from 22 May to 28
May, 38 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 111 have
tested negative, and 51 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 15

There are 15 cases in the community today, of whom 11 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63778 is a 28 year-old male Malaysia national who is employed by
I-VIC Logistic Pte Ltd as a delivery rider for McDonald’s (Hougang
Avenue 8). He reported that he had not been cross-deployed to other
McDonald’s outlets. He developed a runny nose on 26 May, and was tested
for COVID-19 as part of our testing operations for McDonald’s delivery
riders. His test result came back positive on the same day. His serology
test result is positive.

Case 63805 is a 38 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works at Sri Murugan Trading Pte Ltd (Anchorvale). She developed a fever
on 27 May and sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP)
clinic on the same day, where she underwent both an antigen rapid test
(ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, and was immediately
isolated when her ART result came back positive. Her PCR test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology
test result is pending.

Case 63806 is a 49 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a manager at Success Consultancy Pte Ltd. He developed a cough on 24
May but did not seek medical attention. He was detected when he was
tested on 26 May as part of Rostered Routine Testing (RRT). His pooled
test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 27 May and he developed a
fever on the same day. An individual test was done on 27 May, and his
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. His
serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the
presence of early infection. Case 63806 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 20 May.

Case 63809 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
developed a runny nose on 25 May, and loss of taste on 26 May. He sought
medical treatment at a polyclinic on 27 May, and was tested for
COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
28 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63809 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 16 March, and the second dose on 6
April.

CHEVY’S BAR AND BISTRO CLUSTER
Already quarantined:

Case 63775 is a 55 year-old male Singaporean who is a senior officer at
NParks and has been mostly working from home. He is a family member of
Case 63725[1] and was placed on quarantine on 24 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 26 May during quarantine, and developed a cough and runny
nose on the same day. His test result came back positive on 27 May. His
serology test result is pending. Case 63775 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 3 February, and the second dose on 24 February.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63777 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who works as a waiter at
Royz Et Vouz (39 Sultan Gate), and is a family member and household
contact of Case 63742[2]. He developed a cough on 23 May but did not
seek medical treatment until 25 May, when he went to a GP clinic and was
tested for COVID-19. As he had been identified as a close contact of
Case 63742, he was placed on quarantine on 26 May. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 27 May. His serology test result
is pending.

HONG YE GROUP CLEANERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63798 is a 10 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Lee
Kong Chian Gardens School, and a household contact of Case 63761[3]. He
developed a fever and cough on 23 May but did not seek medical
attention. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 63761,
he was placed on quarantine on 27 May, and was tested for COVID-19
during quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. His serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63799 is a 37 year-old female Singaporean who works as a part-time
cleaner at ABBA Maintenance Pte Ltd. She is a family member of Case
63761. She developed a cough on 26 May, and sought medical treatment at
a GP clinic on 27 May where she underwent both an ART and PCR test. She
was immediately isolated when her ART result came back positive. Her PCR
test result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same
day. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63802 is a 12 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at New
Town Primary School and was last in school on 18 May. She is a household
contact of Case 63799. She developed a fever, cough and runny nose on 22
May but did not seek medical attention until 27 May when she visited a
GP clinic, where she was administered both an ART and PCR test. She was
immediately isolated when her ART was positive for COVID-19. Her PCR
test also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her
serology test result is pending.

MCDONALD’S DELIVERY RIDERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63791 is a 33 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Pano Kato Grill, Pizza & Deli. He is a household
contact of of Cases 63629[4], 63668[5] and 63694[6]. He underwent an ART
and PCR test on 22 May, and both test results came back negative on the
same day. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 63629, he
was placed on quarantine on 22 May. He developed a cough on 26 May and
was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 63793 is a 40 year-old female Singaporean who works at Wanderloft
Capsule Hotel. She is a household contact of Case 63629 and was placed
on quarantine on 23 May. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she
was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May during quarantine. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology
test result is pending.

Case 63796 is a 21 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a packer
at DM Wines Pte Ltd. He is a household contact of Case 63629 and was
placed on quarantine on 22 May. He developed a fever on 27 May and
reported his symptoms, and was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 27 May. His serology
test result is pending.

CASE 63714 CLUSTER[7]

Already quarantined:

Case 63794 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works as a manager at
CIMB Bank (Raffles Branch), and was last at work on 20 May. She is a
family member of Cases 63714 and 63747[8], and was placed on quarantine
on 24 May. She developed a cough and lethargy on 25 May, and a fever on
26 May, and reported her symptoms. She was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May
during quarantine and her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63466 CLUSTER[9]

Already quarantined:

Case 63804 is a 56 year-old male Singaporean who works at Chai & Chai
Trading. He is a family member and household contact of Case 63618[10],
and was placed on quarantine on 23 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 27
May during quarantine and developed a cough on the same day. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. His serology
test result is pending.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63776 is a 26 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
administrative staff at Singtel, and was last at work on 14 May. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 63710[11], and was placed
on quarantine on 24 May. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she
was tested for COVID-19 on 26 May during quarantine. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 27 May. Her serology test
result is pending.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 15

Amongst the 15 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 63801 and 63807) are Singaporeans and 6 (Cases 63795,
    63808, 63811, 63812, 63813 and 63814) are Singapore Permanent
    Residents who returned from India and the Philippines.
-   6 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia, Malaysia and
    Myanmar, of whom 3 (Cases 63784, 63786 and 63789) are foreign
    domestic workers.
-   1 (Case 63790) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    Indonesia for a work project in Singapore

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.
4.            Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.            Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

6.            MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the National
University of Singapore and Immigration & Checkpoints Authority clusters
for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the clusters have
now been closed.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.             35 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,407 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

8.              There are currently 241 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 290 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 32 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63725 is a 58 year-old female Singaporean who works at Chevy’s
Bar and Bistro. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 25 May.

[2] Case 63742 is a 52 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
serving staff at Chevy’s Bar and Bistro, and is a workplace contact of
Case 63725. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 25 May.

[3] Case 63761 is a 58 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park, and a workplace
contact of Case 63507. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
26 May.

[4] Case 63629 is a 31 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Pizza Hut (Punggol Plaza). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[5] Case 63668 is a 34 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Pizza Hut (Havelock II). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[6] Case 63694 is a 25 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Domino’s Pizza (Tanjong Katong). He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[7] Case 63714 is a 74 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[8] Case 63747 is a 20 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
the National University of Singapore, and works part-time at Poke Theory
(Novena). She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 26 May.

[9] Case 63466 is a 59 year-old female Singaporean who works at Mary
Fashion and Trading. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 19
May.

[10] Case 63618 is an 84 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 22 May.

[11] Case 63710 is a 27 year-old male Singaporean who works as a project
manager at Fei Ying Trading Enterprise. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 24 May.
