Updates On Border Measures for Travellers and Extending Vaccinated
Travel Lanes



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS AND EXTENDING VACCINATED TRAVEL LANES


Published Date: 26 Nov 2021

The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the global
COVID-19 situation and regularly reviews Singapore’s border measures to
manage the risk of importation from travellers and onward local
transmission. We will be updating our border measures for travellers
from a number of countries/ regions. The updated border measures would
apply to all travellers from the identified countries/ regions arriving
from 1 DECEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS. We will also be extending the
Vaccinated Travel Lanes to CAMBODIA, FIJI, MALDIVES, SRI LANKA, THAILAND
AND TURKEY.



REVIEW OF COUNTRY/REGION CLASSIFICATIONS



Category II countries/regions



2.     We have reviewed the COVID-19 situation in ARGENTINA, KUWAIT,
MEXICO, MONGOLIA, MOROCCO, NEPAL, OMAN, PAKISTAN, ROMANIA, AND THAILAND,
and will place these countries in Category II from 1 DECEMBER 2021, 2359
HOURS.



Category III countries/regions



3.     Based on the worsening situation in AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, CROATIA,
THE CZECH REPUBLIC, LIECHTENSTEIN, AND SLOVAKIA, these countries will be
placed in Category III from 1 DECEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS.



4.     We have also reviewed the COVID-19 situation in BELIZE, COSTA
RICA, KAZAKHSTAN, MAURITIUS, PANAMA, PERU, AND URUGUAY, and these
countries will be placed in Category III from 1 DECEMBER 2021, 2359
HOURS.



5.     The updated country/region classification and its corresponding
border measure may be found in Annex A. The full list of Safe Travel
Lanes for travel to Singapore and prevailing border measures under each
lane for different categories and changes to border measures will be
updated on the SafeTravel website. Not all lanes may utilise the
Category I/II/III/IV health measure framework. Travellers are advised to
visit the website to check the latest border measures for their
country/region which will apply upon entry into Singapore



EXTENSION OF VACCINATED TRAVEL LANES



6.     To-date, we have launched Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs) with
Australia, Brunei, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and
the United States. We will also be launching VTLs with India, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Finland and Sweden from 29 November 2021, and Qatar, Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates from 6 December 2021.Travellers
under the VTLs are not subject to Stay-Home Notice (SHN) on arrival.
Instead, they will be required to produce a negative pre-departure test
taken within two days prior to departure and undergo an on-arrival
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test¹.



7.     We will launch VTLs with THAILAND FROM 14 DECEMBER 2021 and
with CAMBODIA, FIJI, MALDIVES, SRI LANKA AND TURKEY FROM 16 DECEMBER
2021. Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) applications for Short-Term Visitors
and Long-Term Pass Holders will commence on 7 DECEMBER 2021 for
travellers from Thailand; and 9 DECEMBER 2021 for travellers from
Cambodia, Fiji, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Turkey. Returning Singapore
Citizens and Permanent Residents who are fully vaccinated will not need
to apply for VTP in order to make use of the VTLs for travel. Travellers
intending to travel from Singapore to these VTL countries/ regions are
advised to check the prevailing entry requirements of the destination.



8.     The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore will provide more
details separately.



REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES



9.     As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a COVID resilient
nation. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the SafeTravel
website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check the latest
border measures for the associated country or region before entering
Singapore; and be prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border
measures upon entry.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

26 NOVEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] For more information on the VTL (Land) between Singapore and
Malaysia, please visit https://safetravel.ica.gov.sg/vtl-land/overview
