9 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



9 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 20 Jun 2021

1.     As of 20 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 9 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. Of the 9 cases, 3 are linked to previous cases
and have already been placed on quarantine. 6 were detected through
surveillance, amongst whom 1 is linked to previous cases and 5 are
currently unlinked.  There are 2 imported cases, who have already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the
new cases today, 4 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 7 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

9



3

6



7

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

2



2

0



0

2

TOTAL

11















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 36 cases in the week before to 108 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 15
cases in the week before to 21 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 138 confirmed cases reported from 14 June to 20 June,
48 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 77 have tested
negative, and 13 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9

There are 9 cases in the community today, of whom 4 are linked to
previous cases and 5 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64342 is an 83 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree, and a
family member and household contact of Case 64346. She developed a fever
and cough on 16 June but did not seek medical treatment until 18 June,
when she was conveyed to the National University Hospital and was tested
for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 19 June. Her serology test result is negative.

Case 64345 is an 80 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
was conveyed to Singapore General Hospital for an unrelated medical
condition on 19 June, and was found to have a fever. She was tested for
COVID-19 on the same day, and her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 19 June. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64347 is a 22 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
dental assistant at Q&M Dental Surgery (Redhill MRT). At work, she dons
full personal protective equipment (PPE), including N95 mask, face
shield, goggles, gown and gloves. She is asymptomatic, and was detected
when she was tested for COVID-19 on 19 June as part of our community
surveillance testing for those who work in the Redhill Close area. Her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.
Her serology test result is pending. Case 64347 received her first dose
of COVID-19 vaccine on 23 May, and the second dose on 13 June.

Case 64349 is a 24 year-old male Singaporean who works as a financial
consultant with Prudential. He developed a fever and sore throat on 19
June, and sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic
on the same day, where he was administered both an antigen rapid test
(ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. He was immediately
isolated when his ART result came back positive. His PCR test result
also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 19 June. His serology
test result is pending.

Case 64353 is a 52 year-old male Singaporean who works as an engineer at
the Housing and Development Board and was last at work on 13 May. He was
tested for  COVID-19 on 19 June as part of our community surveillance
testing for visitors to the Bukit Merah View area. Later that day, he
developed a fever, cough and sore throat. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 June. His serology test result is
pending. Case 64353 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5
June.

115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64348 is a 63 year-old female Singaporean who works as a warehouse
assistant at SMC Manufacturing Singapore Pte Ltd. She is a family member
and household contact of Case 64257[1] and was placed on quarantine on
15 June. She was tested for COVID-19 on 16 June during quarantine, and
her test result was negative. She subsequently developed a fever on 18
June, and only reported her symptom on 19 June. She was tested for
COVID-19, and her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on the same day. Her serology test result is negative.

Case 64350 is an 86 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 18 June as part our community surveillance
testing for visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View and his test result
came back negative on the same day. As he had been identified as a
household contact of Case 64329[2], he was placed on quarantine on 18
June. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for
COVID-19 on 19 June during quarantine. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 June. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 64351 is a 35 year-old male Vietnam national who works as a stall
assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu (56 Eng Hoon Street). He developed
a cough and throat inflammation on 14 June and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic where he underwent both an ART and PCR test. His ART and
PCR results came back negative for COVID-19. As he had been identified
as a workplace contact of Cases 64248[3] and 64270[4], he was placed on
quarantine on 15 June. He subsequently developed a sore throat on 19
June and underwent both an ART and PCR test. His ART result came back
negative on the same day. His PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 20 June. His serology test result is pending.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64346 is an 81 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree, and a
family member and household contact of Case 64342. She developed a cough
and fatigue on 18 June but did not seek medical attention. She was
detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 19 June as part of our
community surveillance testing for visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah
View. On the same day, she was placed on quarantine as she had been
identified as a family member and household contact of Case 64342, and
reported her symptoms. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 19 June. She has tested preliminarily positive for the
Delta variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests. Her serology
test result is pending. Case 64346 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 28 April, and the second dose on 26 May.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 2

Amongst the 2 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 64343) is a Singaporean who returned from Saudi Arabia.
-   1 (Case 64352) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Indonesia
    and is a foreign domestic worker.

They have already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were
tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Pacific Law
Corporation, Case 63414, Case 63487, and Case 63516 clusters for the
past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the clusters have now been
closed.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.     19 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,042 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
8.     There are currently 142 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 196 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 34 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH

20 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 64257 is a 64 year-old male Singaporean who is a taxi driver
and frequently visited 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 June.

[2] Case 64329 is a 41 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker and had visited 115 Bukit Merah View Market &
Food Centre. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 June.

[3] Case 64248 is a 45 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
stall assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu. She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 15 June.

[4] Case 64270 is a 73 year-old female Singaporean who works as a stall
assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 June.
