38 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



38 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 17 May 2021

  As of 16 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are 38 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection, of whom 21 are linked to previous cases, and 17 are currently
unlinked [1]. Amongst them, 13 had already been placed on quarantine
earlier. The cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in
the dormitories. There are 11 imported cases, who had already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 16 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 33 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

38



13

25



32

6

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

11



11

0



1

10

TOTAL

49















2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 39 cases in the week before to 131 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 6
cases in the week before to 32 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.    Amongst the 226 confirmed cases reported from 10 May to 16 May, 73
cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 115 have tested
negative, and 38 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 38

There are 38 cases in the community today, of whom 21 are linked to
previous cases and 17 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63271 is a 55 year-old male Singaporean who works as a warehouse
assistant at Jin Tai Mart. He developed a fever on 11 May, and sore
throat and cough on 12 May, and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic
on the same day, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology test result
is pending.

Case 63273 is a 54 year-old female Malaysia national who works at Sms
Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd. She developed a fever on 13 May, and cough
the next day. She sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner
(GP) clinic on 14 May, where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. Her serology
test result is pending. She has tested preliminarily positive for the
B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63274 is a 55 year-old male Singaporean who works as a driver at
KEN Express Services Pte Ltd. He developed body aches on 12 May but did
not seek medical treatment until 14 May, when he also developed a runny
nose, and was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology test result is pending.
Case 63274 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 9 May. He has
tested preliminarily positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is pending
further confirmatory tests.

Case 63275 is a 52 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is
employed by Certis Cisco Security as an auxiliary police officer at Bank
of China located at Westgate. He developed a fever, cough and body aches
on 13 May, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day,
where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology test result is pending. He
has tested preliminarily positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is
pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63276 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who is an accountant at 3R
Corporation Pte Ltd, and works from home. He developed a fever on 14 May
and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he
was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 15 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63277 is a 18 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Singapore Polytechnic, and works part-time at Star Arts located at
Westgate. He developed a fever, cough and headache on 13 May and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day, where he was tested for
COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
15 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63286 is a 57 year-old female Malaysia national who is currently
unemployed. She developed a fever and cough on 13 May and sought medical
treatment the next day, where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. Her serology
test result is positive. Case 63286 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 19 April. She has tested preliminarily positive for the
B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63287 is a 29 year-old female Philippines national who works as a
nurse at Raffles Hospital. She arrived from the Philippines on 1 April
and served SHN at a dedicated facility until 14 April. Her swab done on
14 April during SHN was negative for COVID-19. She is asymptomatic, and
was detected when she was tested on 14 May as part of Rostered Routine
Testing (RRT) for healthcare workers. Her test result came back positive
the next day. Her serology test result is pending. Case 63287 received
her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 8 May.

Case 63289 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works at ST Telemedia
Global Data Centres. He developed a fever on 13 May, but did not seek
medical attention. On 14 May, as his condition had not improved, he
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic, where he was tested for
COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
15 May. His serology test result is pending. He has tested preliminarily
positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory
tests.

Case 63290 is a 64 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is
currently unemployed. She developed a cough and runny nose on 9 May but
did not seek medical attention. Her symptoms persisted, and she sought
medical treatment at a polyclinic on 14 May, were she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive the next day. Her serology
test result is negative. Case 63290 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 24 March, and the second dose on 21 April.

Case 63292 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who works as a digital web
designer. He developed a fever on 14 May, and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic the next day, where he tested positive on his ART. He was
immediately isolated, and PCR test was taken on the same day. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology
test result is pending. He has tested preliminarily positive for the
B.1.617 variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63303 is a 28 year-old male Malaysia national who works at Sheng
Siong located at 440 Bukit Batok West Avenue 8. He developed a sore
throat on 14 May, and fever the next day. He sought medical treatment at
a GP clinic on 15 May, and was tested for COVID-19 infection. His test
result came back positive on the same day. His serology test result is
pending. Case 63303 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 4
March, and the second dose on 25 March.

Case 63304 is a 35 year-old female Portugal national who works as a
sales personnel at Sanofi-Aventis. She developed fatigue and body aches
on 13 May, and a fever and cough the next day. She sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on 14 May, where she was tested for COVID-19.
Her test result came back positive the next day. Her serology test
result is negative.

Case 63306 is a 48 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works at What the Fish at Junction 8 and Pin Xiang Yan at 10 Jurong East
Street 12. She developed a fever, sore throat and body aches on 13 May,
and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where she
was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive on 15 May.
Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63307 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works at Clean
Solutions Pte Ltd. He developed a cough on 15 May and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he tested positive for
his ART. He was immediately isolated, and a PCR test was taken on the
same day. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. Case 63307 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on
29 April.

Case 63319 is a 77 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
developed a fever and runny nose on 13 May and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic on 15 May, where she was tested for COVID-19 and tested
positive for her antigen rapid test (ART). She was immediately isolated
and a PCR test was taken on the same day. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is pending. Case 63319 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 7 May.

Case 63320 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works as a dealer at
Marina Bay Sands Casino. He developed a cough, runny nose, sore throat
and body aches on 14 May, and a fever the next day. He sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic, where he was tested for COVID-19 and tested
positive for his ART. A PCR test was taken on the same day and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 16 May. His earlier
tests from Rostered Routine Testing – the last being on 21 April – were
all negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology result is pending.

CHANGI AIRPORT TERMINAL 3 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63291 is a 1 year-old male Singaporean. He is a family member and
household contact of Case 63146 [2], and was placed on quarantine on 13
May. He developed a fever and runny nose on 15 May and his test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology
test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63269 is a 37 year-old male Philippines national who works as a
sales representative at JR Life Sciences, and had visited Changi Airport
Terminal 3 on 4 May. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was
tested on 14 May as part of our testing operations for those who had
visited Changi Airport Terminal 3 from 1 May. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. His serology test result
is negative. He has tested preliminarily positive for the B.1.617
variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests.

Case 63316 is a 39 year-old male Philippines national who works as a
nurse at Ren Ci Nursing Home (Ang Mo Kio). He is a household contact of
Case 63269. He developed a sore throat on 15 May and sought treatment at
a GP clinic, where he was tested for COVID-19. He tested positive on ART
and a PCR test was taken on the same day. His PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 16 May. His serology test result is
pending. Case 63316 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 27
January, and the second dose on 17 February.

Case 63270 is a 36 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a stall assistant at Kopitiam located at Changi Airport Terminal 3.
He developed a runny nose on 13 May but did not seek medical treatment.
He was detected when he was tested on 14 May as part of our testing
operations for workers at Changi Airport Terminal 3. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology result
is pending.

Case 63324 is a 66 year-old female Singaporean who is employed by Certis
Cisco as an aviation security officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3. She
developed a sore throat and cough on 14 May and sought medical treatment
the next day, where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 16 May, and she also developed a
fever. Her earlier tests from Rostered Routine Testing – the last being
on 9 May – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. Her serology test
result is pending. Case 63324 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 18 January, and the second dose on 8 February.

Case 63305 is a 26 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a sales
associate at a retail store at Changi Airport Terminal 3. He developed a
fever on 10 May, and a sore throat, flu and runny nose on 11 May and
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on 12 May, where he was referred
for a swab. He went for his test on 14 May, and his test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His earlier tests from
Rostered Routine Testing – the last being on 15 April – were all
negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is pending.
Case 63305 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 19 January,
and the second dose on 9 February.

CHANGI PRISON COMPLEX CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63294 is a 35 year-old male China national who works as a cargo
driver at SATS Food Pte Ltd. He is a household contact of Case 63160
[3], and was placed on quarantine on 13 May. He is asymptomatic, and was
detected when he was tested on 13 May during quarantine. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology test
result is pending. Case 63294 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 4 February, and the second dose on 25 February.

Case 63300 is a 22 year-old male Vietnam national who is currently
unemployed. He developed a cough, blocked nose and sore throat on 11 May
but did not seek medical treatment. As he had been identified as a
household contact of  Case 63160, he was placed on quarantine on 13 May,
and tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 15 May. His serology test result is pending.

LEARNING POINT CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63279 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Kong Hwa
School and attended Case 63131’s classes at Learning Point located at
Parkway Centre. He was identified as a close contact of Case 63131
[4] and was placed on quarantine on 13 May. He is asymptomatic, and was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 14 May during quarantine.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 63281 is an 8 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Kong
Hwa School and classmate of Case 63185 [5]. He attended Case 63131’s
classes at Learning Point located at Parkway Centre. He was identified
as a close contact of Cases 63131 and 63185, and was placed on
quarantine on 13 May. He was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on
14 May during quarantine. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 15 May. On the same day, he developed a fever. His
serology test result is negative.

Case 63282 is an 8 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
student at Yu Neng Primary School and attended Case 63131’s classes at
Learning Point located at Parkway Centre. He was identified as a close
contact of Case 63131 and was placed on quarantine on 13 May. He was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 14 May during quarantine.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. On
the same day, he developed a cough. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 63285 is an 8 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at St
Margaret’s Primary School but  had not gone to school after onset of
symptoms. She developed a runny nose on 12 May. She attended Case
63131’s classes at Learning Point located at Parkway Centre, and was
placed on quarantine on 13 May. She was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 14 May during quarantine. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. On the same day, she developed a
cough. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63288 is a 41 year-old female Singaporean who works at Celestica
Electronics Pte Ltd. She is a family member and household contact of
Cases 63187 [6] and 63251 [7], and was placed on quarantine on 13 May.
She is asymptomatic and was tested for COVID-19 on 15 May. Her test
result came back positive on the same day. Her serology test result is
pending.

Case 63296 is a 42 year-old male Singaporean who works at the Land
Transport Authority. He is a family member and household contact of Case
63186 [8]. He developed a sore throat on 12 May but did not seek medical
treatment. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 63166,
he was placed on quarantine on 13 May, and tested for COVID-19 on 15
May. His test result came back positive on the same day. His serology
test result is negative.

Case 63297 is a 41 year-old female Singaporean who works at Arcadis Pte
Ltd. She is a family member and household contact of Case 63188 [9]. As
she was a close contact of Case 63188, she was placed on quarantine on
13 May, and tested for COVID-19 on 15 May. Her test result came back
positive on the same day. She also developed a fever on 15 May. Her
serology test result is negative.

Case 63298 is a 37 year-old male Singaporean who works at Schenker
Global Management. He is a family member and household contact of Case
63184 [10]. As he was a close contact of Case 63184, he was placed on
quarantine on 13 May, and tested for COVID-19 on 14 May. His test result
came back negative on the same day. He then developed a sore throat on
15 May and was tested again. His test result was positive for COVID-19
infection on 15 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63325 is a 55 year-old male Singaporean who works as a social
worker at Care Corner Family Service Centre. He is a family member and
household contact of Case 63131, and was placed on quarantine on 12 May.
He is asymptomatic and tested positive for his ART on 14 May during
quarantine. A PCR test was taken on the next day and his test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 16 May. His serology test
result is pending. Case 63325 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 20 April.

WOK HEY (WHITE SANDS) CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63280 is a 26 year-old female Singaporean who works as a customer
service officer at Wareesan Management Pte Ltd. She is a family member
and household contact of Cases 63166 [11] and 63241 [12]. She developed
a sore throat on 10 May but did not seek medical treatment. As she had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63166, she was placed on
quarantine on 13 May but did not report her symptom. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 14 May while on quarantine, and her result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. On the same day, she
developed a fever and sore throat. Her serology test result is pending.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63278 is a 69 year-old male Singaporean who works as a financial
consultant at Project Renaissance, and is a close contact of Case 63271.
He developed chills and body aches on 10 May but did not seek medical
attention. On 13 May, he developed a fever and sought medical treatment
at a polyclinic the next day, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 May. His serology
test result is pending. Case 63278 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 19 April, and the second dose on 10 May.

Case 63317 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a dealer
at Marina Bay Sands Casino. He is a close contact of Case 63320. He
developed a fever on 15 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic
on the same day, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 16 May. His serology test result
is pending.

Case 63318 is a 36 year-old female Malaysia national who works at Sms
Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd, and is a household contact of Case 63273.
She developed a runny nose and cough on 14 May, and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on 15 May, where she tested positive on her
antigen rapid test (ART). She was immediately isolated, and a polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) test was taken on the same day. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.
C) IMPORTED CASES: 11

Amongst the 11 imported cases,

-   5 (Cases 63272, 63283, 63326, 63327 and 63329) are Singapore
    Permanent Residents who returned from India.
-   5 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia, Malaysia and
    the Philippines, of whom 4 (Cases 63301, 63302, 63309 and 63310) are
    foreign domestic workers.
-   1 (Case 63284) is a special pass holder who is a sea crew. He
    arrived from the UAE on a vessel and was tested onboard without
    disembarking.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation. The
arrivals from the Indian sub-continent had already come into Singapore
before the restrictions on travel were imposed [13].

4.   Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.   Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.   42 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,104 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.    There are currently 207 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 243 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This is updated from the afternoon press release as a case has been
re-classified following investigation.

[2] Case 63146 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works as a private
hire car driver with GoJek, and visited Changi Airport Terminal 3 on 6
May. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 May.

[3] Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by
SATS Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison Complex. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[4] Case 63131 is a 50 year-old female Singaporean who works as a tutor
at Learning Point. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12
May.

[5] Case 63185 is an 9 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Kong Hwa School and attended classes at Learning Point. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[6] Case 63187 is an 8 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Kong Hwa School and attended classes at Learning Point. He was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 14 May.

[7] Case 63251 is a 41 year-old male Singaporean who works as a sales
personnel at Aero Light Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 14 May.

[8] Case 63186 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Andrew’s Junior School, and attended classes at Learning Point. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[9] Case 63188 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School and attended classes at Learning Point. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[10] Case 63184 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School and attended classes at Learning Point located at
Parkway Centre. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[11] Case 63166 is a 22 year-old male Singaporean who works as a cook at
WOK HEY (White Sands). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13
May.

[12] Case 63241 is a 55 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She is a family member and household contact of Case 63166. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14 May.

[13] From 23 April 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term pass holders and
short-term visitors with recent travel history (including transit) to
India within the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore,
or transit through Singapore. From 1 May 2021, 2359 hours, all long-term
pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel history
(including transit) to Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka within
the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit
through Singapore.
