2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 03 Mar 2021

     As of 3 March 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 2 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 21 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 22 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

2



0

2



1

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

21



21

0



0

21

TOTAL

23













2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 2 cases in the week before to 4 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from none in the
week before to 4 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
3.    Amongst the 89 confirmed cases reported from 25 February to 3
March, 35 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 26 have
tested negative, and 28 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2

There are 2 cases in the community today who are currently unlinked.

Case 60588

Case 60588 is an 82 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree.

He developed a runny nose, body aches and chills on 14 February and
sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner clinic on 22
February. He was tested for COVID-19 but his test came back negative. On
1 March, he sought medical treatment again as he was still feeling
unwell, and was swabbed for COVID-19. His test came back positive for
COVID-19 infection the next day, and he was conveyed in an ambulance to
the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). His serological test
result has come back negative, indicating that this is likely a current
infection.

While he had registered for COVID-19 vaccination on 22 February, he did
not proceed with vaccination on his appointment date as he had been
advised earlier by his doctor to postpone vaccination if he was feeling
unwell.

Case 60619

Case 60619 is a 38 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
homemaker.

She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she took a COVID-19
pre-departure test on 2 March in preparation for a trip to India. Her
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day and she
was conveyed to NCID in an ambulance. Her serological test result is
pending.

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the cases, including their family members
and co-workers, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be
tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that we can
detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for
the close contacts to determine if the cases could have been infected by
them.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 21

Amongst the 21 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 60618) is a Singapore Permanent Resident who arrived from
    Indonesia.
-   20 (Cases 60594, 60597, 60598, 60599, 60600, 60601, 60602, 60603,
    60604, 60605, 60606, 60607, 60608, 60609, 60610, 60611, 60612,
    60613, 60614 and 60616) are Work Pass holders who arrived from
    India, Nepal and Nigeria.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.
4.    Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5.   7 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 59,849 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
6.    There are currently 18 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 83 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 MARCH 2021
