Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination: Updates of Assessment On
Myocarditis and Pericarditis Following Vaccination With Mrna Covid-19
Vaccines



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION: UPDATES OF ASSESSMENT ON MYOCARDITIS AND PERICARDITIS FOLLOWING VACCINATION WITH MRNA COVID-19 VACCINES


Published Date: 05 Jul 2021

1.     Given the emerging data on the small risk of myocarditis and
pericarditis observed after vaccination with mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, the
Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination recommends that all vaccinated
persons, in particular adolescents and younger men, who have received
any dose of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, should avoid any exercise or
strenuous physical activity for one week after vaccination. During this
time, the vaccinated persons should seek medical attention promptly if
they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats. All
doctors should also be vigilant around such clinical presentations after
vaccination.

UPDATES ON INCIDENCE OF MYOCARDITIS AND PERICARDITIS FOLLOWING
VACCINATION WITH MRNA COVID-19 VACCINES

2.     The Expert Committee recommended on 11 June 2021 that vaccinated
persons, in particular adolescents and younger men, avoid strenuous
physical activity for one week after their second dose of the mRNA
COVID-19 vaccines. The recommendations are now being updated based on
the additional data that has since accrued both locally and
internationally.

3.     In its third COVID-19 vaccine safety update released on 5 July
2021, the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) highlighted that as of 30 June
2021, it had received 12 reports of myocarditis and pericarditis
occurring in individuals following their vaccinations with mRNA COVID-19
vaccines. Five of the cases occurred in adults aged 30 years old and
above. Seven of the cases involved males aged below 30 years old, which
is higher than expected for this age group, based on background
incidence rates. While most of the cases reported previously had
occurred after dose 2 of their vaccination, HSA had also started to
receive reports of some cases that occurred after dose 1. The Expert
Committee has also been informed of a case of a 16-year-old male who
suffered a cardiac arrest, shortly after a strenuous weightlifting
session at a gym that took place 6 days after receiving his first dose
of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. Investigations are on-going into the
cause, including the possibility of acute severe myocarditis, underlying
conditions that can result in this, as well as possible links with his
COVID-19 vaccination. While most persons with vaccine-related
myocarditis observed locally and internationally have mild symptoms and
make an uneventful recovery, it is possible that the condition may be
aggravated by factors or strenuous activities that may affect the heart.

EXPERT COMMITTEEâ€™S RECOMMENDATIONS

4.     Given the additional data on the small but nevertheless
statistically-significant risk of myocarditis/pericarditis occurring
after vaccination with both the first and second doses of an mRNA
COVID-19 vaccine, the Expert Committee recommends that all vaccinated
persons, in particular adolescents and younger men, who have received
any dose of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, should avoid exercise or
strenuous physical activity for one week after the vaccination. During
this time, the vaccinated persons should seek medical attention promptly
if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
All doctors should also be vigilant around such clinical presentations
after vaccination.

5.     In addition, any persons who are diagnosed with myocarditis
following their receipt of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine should not receive
further doses of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines.

6.     After extensive deliberation, the Expert Committee continues to
recommend vaccination with mRNA COVID-19 vaccines for all eligible
persons, including adolescents and younger men, as the protective
benefits from the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines continue to outweigh the risks
of vaccination. Vaccinations should continue to remain voluntary.

7.     COVID-19 is likely to become endemic in Singapore and around the
world. Even with high vaccination rates in our population, settings with
low overall levels of vaccination will continue to be susceptible to
outbreaks. The risk of transmission and outbreak in settings such as
schools or workplaces where there is close contact amongst individuals
will likely be higher. Infection of unvaccinated individuals can lead to
severe disease and long-term complications, including multisystem
inflammatory syndrome in children. As previously indicated, overseas
experience shows that a small but significant proportion of children
diagnosed with COVID-19 can require intensive care and have poor health
outcomes. Despite low COVID-19 cases currently, explosive outbreaks with
highly transmissible new variants are unpredictable, as shown in our
recent experience with the Delta variant and similar experiences
overseas. Vaccination is thus important to protect all individuals from
COVID-19, even for young persons.

8.     The use of safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines in Singapore is
of paramount concern to the Expert Committee, and the Expert Committee
will continue to monitor local and international data to ensure our
vaccination recommendations are up to date based on the latest
scientific evidence available.

EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

5 JULY 2021
