No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 06 Apr 2021

                As of 6 April 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 24 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 23 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

24



24

0



1

23

TOTAL

24















2.         Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained stable at 2 cases per week in the past 2 weeks. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable at 2 cases per
week in the past 2 weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these
numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

3.         Amongst the 172 confirmed cases reported from 31 March to 6
April, 66 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 82 have
tested negative, and 24 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 24

Amongst the 24 imported cases,

-   5 (Cases 61593, 61594, 61595, 61604 and 61605) are Singapore
    Permanent Residents who returned from India and Malaysia.
-   1 (Case 61600) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from
    Ukraine.
-   1 (Case 61608) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from the
    Philippines.
-   2 (Cases 61598 and 61599) are Student's Pass holders who arrived
    from India.
-   1 (Case 61607) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from Bangladesh.
-   12 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India and
    Malaysia, of whom 1 (Case 61592) is a foreign domestic worker.
-   2 (Cases 61596 and 61597) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case
    61596 arrived from India to visit family members who are Singapore
    Permanent Residents, and Case 61597 arrived from India for a work
    project in Singapore.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.        Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.           Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.             25 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,239 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

7.           There are currently 48 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 202 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.


