16 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Infection



16 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTION


Published Date: 31 May 2021

         As of 31 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 16 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 13 are linked to previous cases, amongst
whom 11 have already been placed on quarantine, and 2 were detected
through surveillance. The remaining 3 are currently unlinked. The cases
are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. There are 7 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 12 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 11 were symptomatic.
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

16



11

5



10

6

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

7



7

0



1

6

TOTAL

23













2.        Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 185 cases in the week before to 128 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased
from 32 cases in the week before to 26 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.
3.        Amongst the 191 confirmed cases reported from 25 May to 31
May, 45 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 110 have
tested negative, and 36 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

4.        There are 16 cases in the community today, of whom 13 are
linked to previous cases and 3 are currently unlinked.

A)   CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 16

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63889 is a 72 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
developed a cough on 22 May, and sought medical treatment at a General
Practitioner (GP) clinic on 29 May, where she underwent both an antigen
rapid test (ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. Her ART
result came back negative on the same day, and her PCR test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. Her serology test result
is pending.

Case 63892 is a 68 year-old male Singaporean who works as a manager at
Phoenix Entertainment Karaoke TV Music Lounge Pte Ltd. He developed a
headache on 25 May and sought medical treatment at a hospital on 29 May,
where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection the next day. His serology test result is positive.

Case 63908 is a 60 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at White Sands Primary School. She developed a
fever, cough and runny nose on 28 May and sought medical treatment at a
GP clinic on 30 May. She underwent both an ART and PCR test, and both
test results came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. Her
serology test result is pending. Case 63908 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 20 March, and the second dose on 10 April.

NTUC FOODFARE (308 ANCHORVALE ROAD) CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63896 is a 33 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a supervisor at Hua Zai HK Style Roasted Delight Rice Noodle (308
Anchorvale Road). He is a household contact of Cases 63853[1], 63883[2],
63884[3], 63885[4] and 63886[5], and was placed on quarantine on 29 May.
He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on
30 May during quarantine. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test result is
negative.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63903 is a 33 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai HK Style Roasted Delights (308 Achorvale
Road and 476D Upper Serangoon View). He developed a cough and runny nose
on 30 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic where he underwent
both an ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when his ART
result came back positive on the same day. His PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. His serology test result is
negative.

HONG YE GROUP CLEANERS CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63898 is an 18 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong Ye
Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park. As he had been
identified as a contact of Case 63760[6], he was placed on phone
surveillance on 27 May. On the same day, he developed a cough and runny
nose but did not report his symptoms or seek medical attention. He
subsequently developed loss of taste and smell on 29 May and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he underwent
both an ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when his ART
result came back positive on the same day. His PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. His serology test result is
negative.

Already quarantined:

Case 63905 is an 18 year-old male Singaporean who is a full-time
National Serviceman at the Civil Defence Academy. He is a family member
and household contact of Cases 63799[7], 63842[8] and 63802[9], and was
placed on quarantine on 28 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 30 May
during quarantine, and developed a sore throat on the same day. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. His serology
test result is pending. Case 63905 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 8 March, and the second dose on 1 April.

Case 63906 is a 16 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He is a household contact of Cases 63799, 63802, 63842,
63905 and 63907, and was placed on quarantine on 28 May. He developed a
cough and sore throat on the same day but did not report his symptoms.
He was tested for COVID-19 on 30 May during quarantine, and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.
His serology test result is pending.

Case 63907 is an 11 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at New
Town Primary School and was last in school on 18 May. He developed a
fever on 20 May but did not seek medical attention. He subsequently
developed a fever, diarrhea and vomiting on 26 May and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic the next day, where he was diagnosed with
stomach flu and was therefore not tested for COVID-19. As he had been
identified as a household contact of Cases 63799, 63802, 63842, 63905
and 63906, he was placed on quarantine on 28 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 30 May during quarantine, and his test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test
result is pending.

CASE 63660 CLUSTER[10]

Already quarantined:

Case 63904 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works as a manager
at Changi Airport Group and has been working from home. She is a family
member of Cases 63701[11] and 63702[12], and was placed on quarantine on
24 May. She was tested for COVID-19 infection on 30 May during
quarantine and her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on the same day. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63708 CLUSTER[13]

Already quarantined:

Case 63894 is a 45 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Cases 63746[14] and 63895
and a family member of Case 63709[15], and was placed on quarantine on
25 May. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 29 May during quarantine. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. Her serology test result is negative.

Case 63895 is a 9 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at Chua
Chu Kang Primary School, and was last in school on 18 May. She also
attends student care at Happy Star Learning Hub Student Care & Tuition
Centre. She is a family member and household contact of Cases 63746 and
63894 and a family member of Case 63709, and was placed on quarantine on
25 May. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 29 May during quarantine. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 30 May. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63714 CLUSTER[16]

Already quarantined:

Case 63909 is a 56 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Case 63714 and a family
member of Cases 63747[17]and 63794[18], and was placed on quarantine on
24 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 30 May during quarantine and her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.
She subsequently developed a cough that evening. Her serology test
result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of
early infection. Case 63909 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine
on 27 April.

CASE 63844 CLUSTER[19]

Already quarantined:

Case 63890 is an 82 year-old female Singaporean who is retired. She is a
family member and household contact of Case 63844, and was placed on
quarantine on 29 May. She developed a sore throat on the same day but
did not report her symptom. She was tested for COVID-19 infection on 30
May during quarantine, and developed a fever and runny nose on the same
day. Her test result came back positive on 30 May. Her serology test
result is negative.

Case 63899 is a 54 year-old male Singaporean who is works as a senior
executive at Eng Soon Chair & Table Hire Service. He is a family member
of Case 63844, and was placed on quarantine on 29 May. He is
asymptomatic and was tested for COVID-19 infection on 29 May during
quarantine. His test result came back positive the next day. Case 63899
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 27 April and the second
dose on 25 May. His serology test result is negative for the N antigen,
which suggests the presence of early infection.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63900 is a 30 year-old male Malaysia national who works as an
administrative staff at Sin Wei Precision Mechanical. He is a household
contact of Case 63399[20] and was placed on quarantine on 17 May. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 22 May during quarantine and his test result was
negative. He developed a fever and cough on 27 May but did not report
his symptoms until 30 May. He was tested for COVID-19, and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His
serology test result is negative.

B)    CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0
There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C)      IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases,

-    1 (Case 63910) is a Singaporean and 3 (Cases 63888, 63901
    and 63911) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from
    India, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines.
-   3 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia and Myanmar, of
    whom 1 (Case 63891) is a foreign domestic worker.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.        Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.        Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.        25 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,459 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.        There are currently 223 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 336 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 33 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
31 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63853 is a 33 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai Eating House Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 29 May.

[2] Case 63883 is a 47 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai HK Style Roasted Delights (21 Hougang
Street 51). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 30 May.

[3] Case 63884 is a 21 year-old male Vietnam national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai HK Style Roasted Delight Rice Noodle (308
Anchorvale Road). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 30 May.

[4] Case 63885 is a 22 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai HK Style Roasted Delights (21 Hougang
Street 51). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 30 May.

[5] Case 63886 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai HK Style Roasted Delight Rice Noodle (308
Anchorvale Road). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 30 May.

[6] Case 63760 is a 25 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park. He is a workplace
contact of Case 63507 and household contact of Case 63740. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[7] Case 63799 is a 37 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
part-time cleaner at ABBA Maintenance Pte Ltd, and is a family member of
Case 63761. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[8] Case 63842 is a 47 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
part-time cleaner at ABBA Maintenance Pte Ltd. He is a household contact
of Cases 63798, 63799 and 63802. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 28 May.

[9] Case 63802 is a 12 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
New Town Primary School. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
27 May.

[10] Case 63660 is a 31 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
property agent with ERA Realty Network Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[11] Case 63701 is a 60 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree.
He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[12] Case 63702 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
retail vendor at Chong Pang City. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 24 May.

[13] Case 63708 is a 15 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Westwood Secondary School. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 24 May.

[14] Case 63746 is a 74 year-old male Malaysia national who is a
retiree. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 25 May.

[15] Case 63709 is a 46 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
secretary at Prestige Legal LLP. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 24 May.

[16] Case 63714 is a 74 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[17] Case 63747 is a 20 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
the National University of Singapore, and works part-time at Poke Theory
(Novena). She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 26 May.

[18] Case 63794 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
manager at CIMB Bank (Raffles Branch). She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[19] Case 63844 is a 49 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
executive at Eng Soon Chair & Table Hire Service. She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 28 May.

[20] Case 63399 is a 35 year-old male Malaysia national who is a kitchen
crew at Kota Zheng Zong Bak Kut Teh (Serangoon Gardens). He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.
