Hospitals Increasing Capacity to Ensure No Disruption to Patient Care



HOSPITALS INCREASING CAPACITY TO ENSURE NO DISRUPTION TO PATIENT CARE


Published Date: 03 May 2021

With the increased number of COVID-19 cases in the community and at Tan
Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), the Ministry of Health (MOH) has worked with
the public and private hospitals to activate various capacity management
and load balancing measures.

2. TTSH has implemented further steps to reduce the risk of transmission
as well as free up more manpower to take care of existing patients. From
2 May 2021, TTSH has progressively ceased admissions of new inpatient
cases until further notice. All Singapore Civil Defence Force ambulance
cases will also be diverted to other public and private hospitals for
the purpose of load-balancing.

3. For patients requiring Specialist Outpatient Clinic (SOC) services,
TTSH will defer the appointments of stable cases and initiate
teleconsultation and medication delivery where appropriate. For SOC
patients requiring in-person care, TTSH will arrange for them to be seen
by staff who are not linked to the Case 62541 cluster. From 3 May 2021,
some hospitals have also started deploying doctors, nurses and allied
health professionals to assist TTSH teams in caring for their existing
patients.

4. These measures allow TTSH and the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases (NCID) to focus its attention on providing appropriate care for
patients who are presently admitted, and to deal with the cluster of
COVID-19 cases in the hospital.

NO INTERRUPTION TO URGENT CARE

5. MOH is working closely with all public and private hospitals to
ensure that patients requiring care will continue to be attended to. The
healthcare community has also worked together to reserve more beds to
manage any potential increase in COVID-19 cases. To conserve resources
across the healthcare sector, MOH has asked all hospitals to defer
non-urgent surgeries and admissions as well as non-urgent SOC
appointments until further notice. The hospitals will contact the
affected patients about these deferments. Where appropriate, MOH
encourages hospitalsâ€™ healthcare teams to work closely with patients in
arranging teleconsultations and alternative care arrangements until the
current situation stabilises.

6. MOH urges members of the public to visit the emergency department
only for emergency and life-threatening conditions. These include
persistent chest pain, breathlessness, sudden weakness and numbness,
serious injuries and multiple trauma. Longer wait times are expected, as
other hospitals step up to support TTSH, and we seek the understanding
and patience of Singaporeans.

7. Members of the public with non-emergency conditions should first seek
consultation with their general practitioners or doctors at the
polyclinics. Those with respiratory symptoms should visit Public Health
Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) as far as possible. At PHPCs, Singapore
Citizens and Permanent Residents diagnosed with respiratory infections
(e.g. common cold) will pay a flat subsidised rate of $10 for
consultation and treatment of the condition. Pioneer Generation and
Merdeka Generation seniors will pay $5 at PHPCs.

8. MOH reiterates that no hospital is denying medical care to patients
who need it. However, as a precautionary measure, hospitals may impose
stricter triaging criteria for visitors, including asking visitors or
accompanying persons who had been to TTSH inpatient wards from 18 April
2021 to defer their visits. This is in the best interest and safety of
patients and staff in the other hospitals, as the investigation of the
TTSH outbreak is ongoing.

9. MOH thanks all public and private healthcare institutions for their
contribution to contain the outbreak and seek the understanding and
cooperation of all Singaporeans to support these measures and comply
with safe distancing measures, while the healthcare system makes
adjustments to cope with the ongoing situation.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

3 MAY 2021
