19 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



19 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 14 Jun 2021

      As of 14 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 19 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection.18 are linked to previous cases, amongst
whom 13 have already been placed on quarantine, and 5 were detected
through surveillance. The remaining case is currently
unlinked.[1] Amongst them, 18 are in the community, and 1 resides in a
dormitory. There are 6 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 11 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 14 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

18



12

6



13

5

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



1

0



1

0

IMPORTED CASES

6



6

0



0

6

TOTAL

25













2.      Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 105 cases in the week before to 49 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 15 cases in
the week before to 16 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.      Amongst the 91 confirmed cases reported from 8 June to 14 June,
37 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 34 have tested
negative, and 20 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 18

There are 18 cases in the community today, of whom 17 are linked to
previous cases and 1 is currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:
Case 64217 is a 79 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by AO
ServicePro Pte Ltd as a cleaner at 375 and 376 Clementi Avenue 4. He
developed a runny nose on 12 June, and diarrhoea and vomiting on 13
June. He sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic
on 13 June, where he was administered both an antigen rapid test (ART)
and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. He was immediately isolated
when his ART result came back positive for COVID-19. His PCR test result
also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 13 June. His serology
test result is pending. Case 64217 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 5 June.

115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64199 is a 40 year-old female Singaporean who is a food stall
vendor at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. She is a household
contact of Cases 64198 and 64206, and a family member of Case 64205. She
developed a runny nose on 11 June after work but did not seek medical
attention. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 64132[2], she was placed on quarantine on 11 June but did not
report her symptom. She was administered both an ART and PCR test on 12
Jun during quarantine. Her ART result came back positive for COVID-19 on
the same day. Her PCR test result also came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 13 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 64199
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 31 May.

Case 64205 is a 71 year-old female Singaporean who works as a food stall
vendor at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. She is a family
member of Case 64199. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 64132, she was placed on quarantine on 11 June. She developed a
cough and runny nose on 12 June but did not report her symptoms.
Her test result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 13
June. Her serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which
suggests the presence of early infection. Case 64205 received her first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 11 March, and the second dose on 1 April.

Case 64212 is a 21 year-old female Singaporean who works as an IT
engineer at IBM (Changi Business Park Central 1). She is a family member
of Cases 64202 and 64213, and a household contact of Case 64201. She
developed a runny nose and fever on 12 June but did not seek medical
attention. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 64202,
she was placed on quarantine on 13 June, and reported her symptoms. She
was tested for COVID-19 on the same day, and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 13 June. Her serology test result is
pending. Case 64212 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5
April, and the second dose on 26 April.

Case 64213 is a 47 year-old male Singaporean who works as a cooking
assistant at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He is a
household contact of Case 64201. He developed a fever on 8 June and a
cough on 9 June but did not seek medical attention. As he had been
identified as a close contact of Case 64132, he was placed on quarantine
on 12 June. He reported his symptom and was tested for COVID-19 on 13
June. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the
same day. His serology test result is pending. Case 64213 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 6 June.

Case 64216 is a 94 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree and
regularly goes to Active Global Active Ageing Hub @ Telok Blangah
Parcview. He developed a runny nose on 6 June and fever on 12 June but
did not seek medical attention. As he had been identified as a family
member of Case 64204, he was placed on quarantine on 13 June. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 13 June and his test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on the same day.

Case 64221 is a 67 year-old male Singaporean who is a general worker at
a food stall at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 64132, he was placed on
quarantine on 11 June. He is asymptomatic and was detected when he was
tested for COVID-19 on 13 June during quarantine. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 on 14 June. His serology test result is
pending. Case 64221 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 28
April, and the second dose on 26 May.

Detected through surveillance:
Case 64201 is a 29 year-old female India national who is currently
unemployed. She developed a fever on 12 June and sought medical
attention at a GP clinic on the same day, where she was administered
both an ART and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART
result came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 13 June. Her
serology test result is pending.

Case 64202 is a 17 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at ITE
College Central and was last in school on 27 May. He is a household
contact of Case 64201. He developed a fever and cough on 11 June and
sought medical attention at a GP clinic the next day, where he was
administered both an ART and PCR test. His ART result was negative for
COVID-19. His PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 13 June. His serology test result is pending.

Case 64204 is a 64 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
developed a cough and body aches on 8 June but did not seek medical
attention. On 12 June, he sought treatment at a GP clinic for gastric
issues and body aches, and was not tested for COVID-19. On 13 June, as
his symptoms had worsened, he was conveyed to Singapore General Hospital
where he was administered both an ART and PCR test. Both test results
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology
test result is pending.

Case 64218 is a 42 year-old male Singaporean who works as a hawker at
Telok Blangah Drive Food Centre. He is a family member of Case 64213. He
developed body aches on 12 June and a fever on 13 June, and sought
treatment at Singapore General Hospital, where he was tested for
COVID-19. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 64213, he
was placed on quarantine on 13 June. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 on 14 June. His serology test result is pending.

CASE 64184 CLUSTER[3]

Already quarantined:

Case 64197 is a 42 year-old female India national who is employed by SQ
1 Development Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Ascent (Science Park Drive). She
developed malaise on 11 June but did not seek medical attention. As she
had been identified as a close contact of Case 64184, she was placed on
quarantine on 12 June, and was tested for COVID-19. She developed a
cough on the same day. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 13 June. Her serology test result is negative for the N
antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case 64197
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 31 May.

Case 64198 is a 29 year-old female India national who is a student at
Amity Global Institute, Singapore and has been having lessons from home.
She developed a cough and sore throat on 11 June and did not seek
medical attention. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 64184, she was placed on quarantine on 12 June. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 12 June during quarantine. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the 13 June. Her serology test result
is negative.

Case 64206 is a 45 year-old female Malaysia national who works as an
analyst at Pinnacle Credit Services. She is a household contact of Cases
64198 and 64199, and was placed on quarantine on 12 June. She is
asymptomatic and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 12
June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
on 13 June. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64207 is a 46 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She is a household contact of Cases 64186[4],
64191[5] and 64197, and was placed on quarantine on 12 June. She is
asymptomatic and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 12
June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
on 13 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 64207 received her
first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine on 31 May.

Case 64208 is a 33 year-old male Malaysia national who is employed as a
cleaner by Eunike Living Pte Ltd. He is a household contact of Case
64184, and was placed on quarantine on 12 June. He is asymptomatic and
was detected when he was tested on 12 June during quarantine. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 on 13 June. His serology test
result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64200 is a 26 year-old female Singaporean who is employed by Cleen
First Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Emerald Park condominium. She
developed a cough and sore throat on 12 June and sought medical
treatment at a polyclinic where she underwent an ART and PCR test. Her
ART result came back negative for COVID-19. On the same day, as she had
been identified as a close contact of Case 64191, she was placed on
quarantine. Her PCR test came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 13
June. Her serology test result is negative.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 64209 is a 16 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Anglo
Chinese School (Independent) and was last in school on 18 May. He is a
family member and household contact of Case 64159[6], and was placed on
quarantine on 11 June. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was
tested for COVID-19 on 12 June during quarantine. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 13 June. His serology test
result is pending.

B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1
There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today who is linked to previous
cases.

Already quarantined:

Case 64219 is a 26 year-old male India national who works as an
electrician at GT ENGRG Pte Ltd. He resides at Westlite Juniper (23
Mandai Estate). As he had been at Ecoxplore Pte Ltd on 10 June, he was
identified as a close contact of Case 64184[7] and was placed on
quarantine on 12 June. He was tested for COVID-19 on 13 June during
quarantine, and developed a runny nose later that day. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 14 June. His earlier tests
from RRT – the last being on 4 June – were all negative for COVID-19
infection. His serology test result is pending. Case 64219 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 3 April and the second dose on 24
April.

C)  IMPORTED CASES: 6

Amongst the 6 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 64222) is a Singaporean and 2 (Cases 64210 and 64220) are
    Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from Bangladesh and
    India.
-   1 (Case 64211) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from the
    Philippines.
-   1 (Case 64214) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Malaysia.
-   1 (Case 64215) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    Indonesia for a work project in Singapore.

They have all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.      Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.      Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.      MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the WOK HEY and
Case 63319 clusters for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days),
the clusters have now been closed.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.      25 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,894 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.      There are currently 138 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 235 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 34 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
14 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This is updated from the afternoon press release as 1 more case has
been linked to previous cases following epidemiological investigations.

[2] Case 64132 is a 74 year-old male Singaporean who works at a sundry
store at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 9 June.

[3] Case 64184 is a 27 year-old male India national who works as an
engineer at Ecoxplore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 12 June.

[4] Case 64186 is a 19 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
warehouse assistant at DHL Express (Singapore) Pte Ltd. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 11 June.

[5] Case 64191 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who is employed by
Cleen First Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Emerald Park condominium.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 June.

[6] Case 64159 is an 18 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
SIM Global Education, and was last in school on 24 May. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 11 June.

[7] Case 64184 is a 27 year-old male India national who works as an
engineer at Ecoxplore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 12 June.
