Reply to Media Queries On Social Gatherings Sizes In Phase 2 -
Heightened Alert and Wedding Receptions On Sunday 16 May



REPLY TO MEDIA QUERIES ON SOCIAL GATHERINGS SIZES IN PHASE 2 - HEIGHTENED ALERT AND WEDDING RECEPTIONS ON SUNDAY 16 MAY


Published Date: 14 May 2021

SOCIAL GATHERING SIZES



On 14 May 2021, MTF announced that the permissible group size of up to 5
persons for social gatherings would be reduced to up to 2 persons, and
the cap of 5 distinct visitors per household per day to 2 distinct
visitors per household per day.  In addition, individuals should
continue to limit their overall number of social gatherings to not more
than 2 per day, whether to another household, or meeting with friends
and family members in a public place.



The cap of 2 persons for social gatherings is meant to minimize
face-to-face interactions and reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission
across different households and within the community.



We recognise that there may be occasions where members of the same
household may need to move about in groups larger than two persons,
especially those with young children or elderly parents in order to look
after their higher care needs. These may include taking public
transport, going for medical appointments, attending classes or going to
work in the same vehicle.  We are prepared to be flexible in our
implementation of the general rule for such bonafide cases.



Members of the public from different households making use of public
amenities such as playgrounds, fitness corners, basketball courts, etc
should keep to groups of two people and maintain proper safe
distancing.



Strict enforcement measures will be taken against any breaches of the
safe management measures. We also do not rule out having to close such
amenities if there are persistent breaches of the measures.



We strongly urge households to observe the prevailing group size limits
in public settings and venues as far as possible. The additional
precautionary measures are necessary to protect Singaporeans and keep
our loved ones safe. We need everyone to play their part and exercise
social responsibility.



GRANDFATHERING OF WEDDINGS ALREADY ARRANGED ON SUNDAY 16 MAY



At the press conference earlier today, the Ministerial Taskforce noted
that it may be very hard for couples holding their weddings this Sunday,
16 May 2021, to make changes to their plans. Hence, the Government will
allow a special arrangement for couples with wedding receptions on 16
May 2021 to proceed with their receptions but subject to the conditions
that only up to 100 attendees are allowed and that all unvaccinated
attendees must undergo Pre-event Testing (PET).



The tightened measures for solemnisations will continue to take effect
from 16 May 2021 (i.e. up to 50 persons without PET and up to 100 with
PET for all attendees).

We seek the publicâ€™s understanding that such tightened measures are
necessary to contain the community transmission to keep you and your
families safe.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
14 MAY 2021
