Suspension of On & On Diners Pte Ltd’s Food Business Operations



SUSPENSION OF ON & ON DINERS PTE LTD’S FOOD BUSINESS OPERATIONS


Published Date: 23 Nov 2021

        The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Singapore Food Agency (SFA)
are investigating two incidents of gastroenteritis affecting a total of
73 persons who reported gastroenteritis symptoms after consuming food
prepared by On & On Diners Pte Ltd between 16 and 18 November 2021. None
were hospitalised.
2     In view of the suspected ongoing transmission, SFA has suspended
the food business operations of On & On Diners Pte Ltd located at 8A
Admiralty St #06-20 and #06-38 with effect from 23 November 2021 until
further notice. The licensee is required to clean and sanitise the
premises, including equipment and utensils, and dispose all ready-to-eat
food and perishable food items.
3.    Food safety is a joint responsibility. SFA would like to remind
food operators to observe good food and personal hygiene practices at
all times. SFA will not hesitate to take firm action against anyone
found to be in violation of the Environmental Public Health Act. In the
interest of maintaining a high standard of food hygiene at all food
establishments, we would also like to advise members of the public who
come across poor hygiene practices in food establishments not to
patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via the online feedback form
(www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our follow-up investigations.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
23 NOVEMBER 2021
