Update On Local Covid-19 Situation and Vaccination Progress



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION AND VACCINATION PROGRESS


Published Date: 02 Sep 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 2 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has    |
|     confirmed and verified that there are 187 cases of locally        |
|     transmitted COVID-19 infection and 4 imported cases.              |
|                                                                       |
| -   528 cases are currently warded in hospital. Most are well and     |
|     under observation. There are currently 27 cases of serious        |
|     illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and 5 in critical       |
|     condition in the intensive care unit (ICU).                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, the percentage of unvaccinated who became  |
|     severely ill or died is 8.2%, while that for the fully vaccinated |
|     is 1.1%.                                                          |
| -   As of 1 September 2021, 80% of our population has completed their |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 83%    |
|     has received at least one dose.                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+



UPDATE ON VACCINATION PROGRESS

1.     As of 1 September 2021, we have administered a total of 8,735,507
doses of COVID-19 vaccines under the national vaccination programme
(Pfizer-BioNTech Comirnaty and Moderna), covering 4,518,968 individuals,
with 4,336,867 individuals having completed the full vaccination
regimen.
2.     In addition, 168,484 doses of other vaccines recognised in the
World Health Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been
administered as of 1 September 2021, covering 85,860 individuals. In
total, 80% of our population has completed their full regimen/ received
two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 83% has received at least one dose.

FIGURE 1: Percentage of Total Population who Received At Least First
Dose[1] and Completed Full Regimen[2] of NVP and WHO EUL Vaccines[3]

[210902 Figure 1]

FIGURE 2: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At Least
First Dose of NVP and WHO EUL Vaccines by Age Group

[210902 Figure 2]

FIGURE 3: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen of NVP
and WHO EUL Vaccines by Age Group

[210902 Figure 3]

CONDITION OF HOSPITALISED CASES

3.     528 cases are currently warded in hospital. There are currently
27 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and 5 in
critical condition in the ICU. Of those who have fallen very ill, 22 are
seniors above 60 years, of whom 12 are completely unvaccinated or
partially vaccinated.

FIGURE 4: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[210902 Figure 4]



FIGURE 5: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[210902 Figure 5]

4.     There is continuing evidence that almost all fully-vaccinated
individuals do not suffer serious disease when infected, unless if they
had underlying medical conditions that made them more susceptible. Over
the last 28 days, the percentage of unvaccinated who became severely ill
or died is 8.2%, while that for the fully vaccinated is 1.1%.

FIGURE 6: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition[4]

[210902 Figure 6]

FIGURE 7: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status

[210902 Figure 7]

LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 CASES

5.     There are 187 cases of locally transmitted COVID-19 infection
today. 56 are linked to previous cases, and have already been placed on
quarantine. 18 are linked to previous cases and were detected through
surveillance. 113 are currently unlinked.

6.     There are 4 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. In total,
there are 191 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore today.

FIGURE 8: Number of Local Unlinked Cases and Linked Cases by Already
Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance[5]

[210902 Figure 8]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

7.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 405 cases in the week before to 922 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 118
cases in the week before to 332 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving
average number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community
cases are 84.3 and 47.4 respectively.

FIGURE 9: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases[5]

[210902 Figure 9]

FIGURE 10: Local Cases in the Last 14 Days by Age Group and Vaccination
Status

[210902 Figure 10]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

8.     There are a total of 4 imported cases. Of these, 1 was detected
upon arrival in Singapore, while 3 developed the illness during SHN or
isolation.

FIGURE 11: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[210902 Figure 11]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

9.     There are no new clusters today, and 3 clusters have closed.
There are currently 65 clusters, ranging between 3 and 1,155 infections.

FIGURE 12: Number of Active Clusters

[210902 Figure 12]

FIGURE 13: List of Active Clusters

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[6]

Case 69690

2

9

Tampines Bus Interchange staff

1

24

Institute of Mental Health

1

15

Boon Lay Bus Interchange staff

5

74

Jurong East Bus Interchange staff __

2

30

North Coast Lodge

1

175

Bugis Junction

8

246

Toa Payoh Bus Interchange staff

10

104

Bishan Bus Interchange staff

1

29

Clementi Bus Interchange staff

2

23

119 Neythal Road dormitory

3

18

Homestay Lodge __

1

15

Case 69739

0

7

Punggol Bus Interchange staff

0

32

Bangkit 257 Coffee House (257 Bangkit Road)

0

5

Selarang Halfway House

0

32

Tuas South Lodge

0

6

Westlite Juniper Dormitory

0

74

Case 68647

0

6

43 Sungei Kadut Loop dormitory

0

19

Sengkang Bus Interchange staff

0

25

Case 68669

0

4

Case 68238

0

5

Giant (683 Hougang Avenue 8)

0

9

SAFRA Tampines

0

19

Superland Pre-School (Kreta Ayer Community Centre)

0

18

FairPrice (Kallang Bahru)

0

6

My First Skool (54 Chin Swee Road)

0

40

Case 68646

0

4

Nimble/Knead

0

8

Case 67343

0

42

Case 67220

0

32

Case 68431

0

7

Chee Song Frozen Foods

0

8

North Bridge Road Market & Food Centre

0

16

Kian Hiap Construction

0

17

Sin Ming 23 Coffee Shop

0

17

Marina Bay Sands Casino

0

66

KTV lounges/clubs

0

253

Case 67302

0

3

Case 68131

0

4

Zuellig Pharma

0

12

Case 66567

0

34

Westlite Mandai Dormitory

0

14

Case 66838

0

4

Jurong Fishery Port/ Hong Lim Market & Food Centre __

0

1,155

Case 67045

0

3

Case 67353

0

5

NKF Dialysis Centre (Sakyadhita)

0

9

Case 67982

0

7

Case 67981

0

3

Samy’s Curry Restaurant

0

61

Punggol Primary School

0

17

Elsie’s Kitchen

0

6

Jem

0

6

CHIJ Katong Convent

0

10

Case 66449

0

21

Case 67704

0

4

Case 66244

0

8

Case 67738

0

3

Case 67436

0

7

Changi General Hospital

0

4

Case 66764

0

4

Case 66996

0

3

Case 67051

0

5



10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

2 SEPTEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[2] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine or one dose for vaccinated recovered individuals.

[3] Other vaccines recognised in the WHO EUL account for about 2% of the
total population who received at least 1 dose and about 1% of total
population who completed the full regimen.

[4] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals). Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.

[5] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[6] Includes new cases added today.
