13 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



13 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 26 Jun 2021

          As of 26 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 13 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. Of the 13 cases, 5 are linked
to previous cases and have already been placed on quarantine. 8 were
detected through surveillance, amongst whom 4 are linked to previous
cases and 4 are currently unlinked.[1] There are 4 imported cases, who
have already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 6 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 11 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

13



5

8



11

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

4



4

0



0

4

TOTAL

17















2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 109 cases in the week before to 92 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from
13 cases in the week before to 19 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 127 confirmed cases reported from 20 June to 26
June, 39 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 74 have
tested negative, and 14 serology test results are pending.



CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 13

There are 13 cases in the community today, of whom 9 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.



CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64463 is a 32 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
administrative staff at Walt Disney. She developed a fever, cough and
body aches on 16 June but did not seek medical attention until 21 June
when she sought medical treatment via a telehealth provider but was not
referred for a COVID-19 test. On 24 June, she sought medical treatment
at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic, where she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
25 June. Her serology test result is positive.

Case 64464 is a 21 year-old female Singaporean who works as a nurse at
Changi General Hospital. She was tested for COVID-19 on 23 June as part
of Rostered Routine Testing (RRT), and developed a fever and runny nose
on 24 June. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
25 June. Her earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 14 June – were
all negative for COVID-19 infection. Her serology test result is
negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early
infection. Case 64464 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5
February and the second dose on 1 March.

Case 64468 is a 27 year-old male Singaporean who is a serviceman in the
Singapore Navy. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
64135[2], he was placed on quarantine on 10 June. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 10 June, 11 June, 18 June, and 21 June during quarantine,
and his test results were all negative for COVID-19. His quarantine
ended on 22 June but he subsequently developed a fever on 24 June
evening. He sought medical treatment at a polyclinic the next day, where
he underwent both an antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) test. He was immediately isolated when his ART result
came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. His PCR test result
also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June. His serology
test result is pending. Case 64468 received his first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 16 March, and his second dose on 6 April.

Case 64478 is a 76 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
asymptomatic, and was detected she sought medical treatment at Singapore
General Hospital for an unrelated medical condition on 25 June, and was
tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 26 June. Her serology test result is pending.



115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64472 is a 31 year-old female Singaporean who works as a waitress
at Cheflix Restaurant and was last at work on 13 May. As she had been
identified as a contact of Case 64216[3], she was placed on phone
surveillance on 17 June. On the same day, she was placed on quarantine
as a close contact of Case 64305[4]. She was tested for COVID-19 on 19
June during quarantine and her test result was negative. She developed a
cough on 20 June, fever on 22 June and subsequently anosmia on 25 June
but did not report her symptoms. She was detected when she was tested
for COVID-19 on 25 June and her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 on the same day. Her serology test result is pending.



Detected through surveillance:

Case 64474 is a 28 year-old female Singaporean who works as an officer
with the Singapore Police Force, and is deployed at the Bukit Merah West
Neighbourhood Police Centre (500 Bukit Merah View). She was last at work
on 22 June. She developed a runny nose on 25 June and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where she underwent both an
ART and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART result came
back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR test result also
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June. Her serology test
result is pending. Case 64474 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 12 March, and her second dose on 5 April.



119 BUKIT MERAH VIEW CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64470 is a 34 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She developed a fever and cough on 24 June but did not
seek medical attention. She was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 the next day as part of our community surveillance testing for
residents of the Bukit Merah View area. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June. Her serology test result is
pending.



105 HENDERSON CRESCENT CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64473 is a 43 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She developed a headache and runny nose on 24 June but
did not seek medical attention. She was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 25 June as part of our community surveillance testing for
residents of 105 Henderson Crescent. She was immediately isolated when
her ART result came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR
test result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June.
Her serology test result is pending.



CHANGI GENERAL HOSPITAL CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64476 is a 48 year-old female Singaporean who works as a porter at
Changi General Hospital. She is a workplace contact of Cases 64413[5] ,
64442[6] , 64443[7] and 64462, and was placed on quarantine on 24 June.
She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19
on 25 June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her earlier tests from RRT – the
last being on 22 June – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. Her
serology test result is pending. Case 64476 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 12 April and the second dose on 5 May.



Detected through surveillance:

Case 64462 is a 66 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter at
Changi General Hospital. He is a workplace contact of Cases 64413,
64442, 64443 and 64476. He developed a fever, cough and runny nose on 23
June, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day, where he
was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 24 June. His earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 21
June – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test
result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of
early infection. Case 64462 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine
on 13 January and the second dose on 3 February.



CASE 64264 CLUSTER [8]

Already quarantined:

Case 64475 is an 86 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree, and
attends day care at St Luke’s ElderCare (Hougang Meadow Centre). As he
had been identified as a close contact of Case 64420[9], he was placed
on quarantine on 24 June. He developed a cough and a fever on 25 June,
and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during quarantine. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June. His
serology test result is pending.



CASE 64349 CLUSTER [10]

Already quarantined:

Case 64465 is a 22 year-old male Singaporean who works as a trainee
engineer at Skyworks Global Pte Ltd, and was last at work on 11 June. He
is a close contact of Cases 64387[11], 64414[12], 64415[13], 64416[14]
and 64437[15], and was placed on quarantine on 21 June. He was tested
for COVID-19 on 22 June during quarantine, and his test result was
negative. He developed a cough, fever and sore throat on 25 June, and
was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 64467 is a 26 year-old male Singaporean who works at Helping Hands
Cleaning Services. He is a close contact of Cases 64387, 64414, 64415,
64416, 64437 and 64465, and was placed on quarantine on 21 June. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 22 June during quarantine, and his test result
was negative. He developed a fever and sore throat on 25 June, and was
tested for COVID-19 on the same day during quarantine. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 June. His serology test
result is pending.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 4

Amongst the 4 imported cases,

•  1 (Case 64477) is a Singaporean and 2 (Cases 64469 and
64479) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from India and the
UK.
•  1 (Case 64466) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived
from Saudi Arabia for a work project in Singapore.

They have all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  20 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,181 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.  There are currently 143 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 4 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 170 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 36 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

8.  Case 64255, an 84 year-old female Singaporean, has passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 26 June 2021. She
was tested for COVID-19 on 15 June as part of our community surveillance
testing for visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View, and was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 15 June. She had not been vaccinated
against COVID-19, and had a history of cancer, hypertension and
hyperlipidaemia. The National Centre for Infectious Diseases has reached
out to her family and is extending assistance to them.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  This is updated from the afternoon press release as 2 more cases
have been linked to previous cases following epidemiological
investigations.
[2]  Case 64135 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
promoter at Guardian (ION Orchard). She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 10 June.
[3]  Case 64216 is a 94 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.
[4]  Case 64305 is a 39 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
logistics officer at CKD Singapore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 17 June.
[5]  Case 64413 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter
at Changi General Hospital. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 23 June.
[6]  Case 64442 is a 67 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter
at Changi General Hospital. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 24 June.
[7]  Case 64443 is a 72 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter
at Changi General Hospital. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 24 June.
[8]  Case 64264 is a 32 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 June.
[9]  Case 64420 is a 78 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
[10]  Case 64349 is a 24 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
financial consultant with Prudential. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 19 June.
[11]  Case 64387 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Singapore Institute of Management. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 22 June.
[12]  Case 64414 is a 22 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
[13]  Case 64415 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who works at Skyworks
Global Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
[14]  Case 64416 is a 22 year-old female Singaporean who is a software
engineer at NCS Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
23 June.
[15]  Case 64437 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who works at Unity
Assurance PAC. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
