Update On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 09 Sep 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   664 cases are currently warded in hospital. There are currently   |
|     26 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and |
|     7 in critical condition in the intensive care unit (ICU).         |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, the percentage of unvaccinated who became  |
|     severely ill or died is 5.2%, while that for the fully vaccinated |
|     is 0.8%.                                                          |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 8 September 2021, 81% of our population has completed their |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 83%    |
|     has received at least one dose.                                   |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 9 September 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has    |
|     detected a total of 457 new cases of COVID-19 infection in        |
|     Singapore today.                                                  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+




CONDITION OF HOSPITALISED CASES

1.    As of 9 September 2021, 12pm, 664 COVID-19 cases are currently
warded in hospital. Most are well and under observation. There are
currently 26 cases of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation,
and 7 in critical condition in the ICU. Of those who have fallen very
ill, 28 are seniors above 60 years.

2.     Case 65636, a 62 year-old male Singaporean, has passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection on 6 September 2021. He had been
conveyed to Singapore General Hospital for an unrelated medical
condition on 20 July and tested positive for COVID-19 infection on 21
July. He had not been vaccinated against COVID-19, and had a history of
cancer and bronchiectasis. In total, 57 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

FIGURE 1: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[210909 Figure 1]

FIGURE 2: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised, by Age Groups

[210909 Figure 2]

3.     Over the last 28 days, the percentage of unvaccinated who became
severely ill or died is 5.2%, while that for the fully vaccinated is
0.8%.

FIGURE 3: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition[1]

[210909 Figure 3]



UPDATE ON VACCINATION PROGRESS

4.     As of 8 September 2021, 81% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 83% has
received at least one dose.

5.     We have administered a total of 8,823,534 doses of COVID-19
vaccines under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech
Comirnaty and Moderna), covering 4,544,155 individuals, with 4,396,578
individuals having completed the full vaccination regimen. In addition,
175,027 doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health
Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered,
covering 86,379 individuals.

LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 CASES

6.     As of 9 September 2021, 12pm, there are 457 cases of COVID-19
infection, comprising 450 local cases and 7 imported cases.

A) ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING

7.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[2]

REMARKS

Hu Lee Impex

9

22

Primarily workplace transmission, no evidence of spread beyond workplace
and household contacts of cases

Sembcorp Marine Tuas Boulevard Yard

14

32

Most cases are residents of 38 Kian Teck Drive dormitory; new cases have
all been quarantined earlier

Changi General Hospital

2

61

Transmission limited to facility management staff, no transmission to
healthcare workers and patients; cases declining

Bugis Junction

8

305

Intra-mall transmission amongst staff and visitors; all new cases
quarantined earlier

Toa Payoh Bus Interchange staff

6

190

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Tampines Bus Interchange staff

1

45

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Boon Lay Bus Interchange staff

6

152

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Punggol Bus Interchange staff

2

41

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

Jurong East Bus Interchange staff

1

43

Workplace transmission amongst bus captains and interchange staff, no
evidence of spread to commuters

North Coast Lodge

1

200

Intra-dormitory transmission; new cases have all been quarantined
earlier; cases declining

30 Sunview Way construction site

2

37

Workplace transmission, no evidence of spread beyond worksite; cases
detected from proactive testing



B) SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

8.     There are 450 local cases with COVID-19 infection today. Amongst
the local cases today are 108 seniors who are above 60 years.

FIGURE 5: Number of Local Cases by Age

[210909 Figure 4]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

9.     There are a total of 7 imported cases, who have already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore.
Of these, 3 were detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 4 developed
the illness during SHN or isolation.

FIGURE 6: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[210909 Figure 5]

10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

9 SEPTEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals).

[2] Includes new cases added today.
