Updates On Local Situation, Border Measures and Shift to Heightened
Alert to Minimise Transmission



UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION, BORDER MEASURES AND SHIFT TO HEIGHTENED ALERT TO MINIMISE TRANSMISSION


Published Date: 04 May 2021

           The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) has been closely
monitoring the local and global COVID-19 situation. Several countries
continue to experience a resurgence of cases and the emergence of new
virus variants which have also been found in Singapore. The number of
locally transmitted COVID-19 cases and unlinked community cases has also
continued to increase, signalling undetected community transmissions
that could rapidly escalate into another major outbreak if not
adequately contained in a timely manner. We will be taking decisive
action to curb the COVID-19 infections in Singapore.

2.      We will further tighten border measures to manage the risk of
importation from travellers and onward local transmission. From 7 MAY
2021, 2359 HOURS, all new travellers arriving from higher risk
countries/regions will be subject to 21-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at
dedicated SHN facilities.

3.     We will also be tightening safe management measures to reduce the
risk of community spread in this period of heightened alert. In the
upcoming weeks, it is of utmost importance that everyone be extra
vigilant and take all necessary precautions against the spread of
COVID-19 infections in Singapore.

REPORT OF VIRUS VARIANTS IDENTIFIED IN SINGAPORE

4.     Within the community in the past week, we have identified 60 new
cases. As of 3 May 2021, we have detected eight local cases with the
B.1.351 (S. African) variant, seven local cases with the B.1.1.7 (UK)
variant, seven local cases with B.1.617.2 (Indian) variant, three local
cases with P1 (Brazilian) variant, three local cases with B.1.617.1
(Indian) variant, and one local case with B.1.525 (UK2) variant. In
addition, there were four re-infection cases RI16, RI17, RI18 and RI20
with the B.1.351 (S. African) variant [1].

5.     Of note, seven cases in three local clusters have the B.1.617.2
(Indian) variant, but the viruses in each cluster are phylogenetically
distinct, suggesting that the clusters are not linked to one another.
Five cases 62541, 62557, 62561, 62567, and 62568 are part of the cluster
at Tan Tock Seng Hospital. Case 62517 of the Case 62517 cluster is an
Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (ICA) officer deployed at Changi
Airport Terminal 1. Case 62553 of the Case 62553 cluster is a cleaner
deployed at a community care facility at Tuas South. All necessary
public health actions have been taken promptly to isolate and ringfence
all cases. Given the possible increased transmissibility of the new
virus variants, it is necessary to take tighter measures reflective of
the heightened alert to mitigate the risk of further transmission in
Singapore.

REVIEWING BORDER MEASURES TO MANAGE RISKS

6.      Since 1 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, to manage the increased risks of
community spread, all long-term pass holders and short-term visitors
with recent travel history (including transit) to Bangladesh, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka within the last 14 days are not allowed entry
into Singapore, or transit through Singapore [2]. In addition, since 2
MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, travellers with recent travel history to Thailand
are required to serve their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities. In
view of the worsening situation globally, we will further tighten our
border measures for travellers with recent travel history to higher risk
countries/regions, and reduce entry approvals for non-Singapore
Citizens/ Permanent Residents with immediate effect.

(A) Extending Consecutive Travel History from 14 to 21 Days

7.     From 7 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, prevailing border measures that will
apply to incoming travellers will be determined based on the travellersâ€™
recent travel history in the past consecutive 21 days to countries/
regions, instead of the existing assessed travel history period of 14
days [3] . This will aid the detection of any spread among any groups of
travellers at pre-departure tests.

(B) Reviewing the Length of the SHN Duration from 14 to 21 Days

8.     From 7 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, the following changes to the SHN
duration will be implemented:
a.   All travellers with recent travel history to higher risk
countries/regions[4], and who are arriving from 7 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS,
will be required to serve 21-day SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities. Travellers who are currently serving 14-day SHN and have yet
to complete their SHN by 7 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, will be required to
serve an additional 7-days at their current SHN location to minimise
movement and risk of transmission.
b.   Travellers who have stayed in FIJI AND VIETNAM in the last 14 days
before arrival in Singapore were previously allowed to opt out of
serving 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities. FROM 7 MAY 2021, 2359
HOURS, TRAVELLERS WHO HAVE STAYED IN THESE COUNTRIES IN THE PAST
CONSECUTIVE 21 DAYS BEFORE ARRIVAL IN SINGAPORE WILL BE SUBJECTED TO
21-DAY SHN AT DEDICATED SHN FACILITIES, WITH THE OPTION TO SERVE THE
LAST 7 DAYS AT THEIR PLACE OF RESIDENCE. Those whohave yet to complete
their 14-day SHN by 7 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS can complete their remaining
14-day SHN at their current SHN location, and serve their additional
7-days at their place of residence, instead of at dedicated SHN
facilities.

c.   Travellers from the UK, South Africa, Bangladesh, India, Nepal,
Pakistan, and Sri Lanka who are currently required to serve 21-day SHN
will be required to serve the full duration of the SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities. Travellers who have yet to complete their 21-day SHN by 7
MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, will have to complete their 21-day SHN at their
current SHN location to minimise movement and risk of transmission.

d.   Travellers serving 21-day SHN will undergo COVID-19 Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) tests on-arrival[5], on Day 14 of their SHN, and
before the end of their 21-day SHN period.
HEIGHTENED ALERT IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19

9.     On 30 April 2021, MTF had announced additional community measures
that would be implemented from 1 May through 14 May 2021 (unless
otherwise stated). To manage the evolving community situation, we will
step up efforts to keep the community safe and break the chains of
transmission by reducing interactions amongst social circles and at the
workplace. Activities that involve large gatherings will also be
calibrated to ensure that the risk of transmission at such events are
mitigated.
10.     The following additional measures will take effect from 8
MAY through 30 MAY 2021. In the next few days before the measures take
effect, we also encourage all to practise the following safe management
measures to keep our community safe. A summary of all measures
applicable from 1 May through 30 May 2021 is summarised in Annex B.

A) Reducing Interactions amongst Social Circles

11.     The current permissible group size of up to 8 persons will be
reduced to up to 5 persons. As earlier announced on 30 April 2021,
individuals are advised to keep to 2 or less social gatherings per
day, whether visiting another household or meeting with friends/ family
members in a public place. The cap of 8 distinct visitors per household
per day will also be reduced to 5 distinct visitors per household per
day.

B) Workplace Measures

12.      Today, up to 75% of employees who are able to work-from-home
are allowed to return to the workplace. This will be tightened from 8
MAY through 30 MAY 2021. Employers must ensure that no more than 50% of
employees who are able to work from home return to the workplace at any
time. Employers should continue to stagger start times of employees who
need to return to the workplace, and implement flexible working hours.
Social gatherings at the workplace should be avoided. However, if they
cannot be avoided (e.g. during meal breaks), the gatherings are subject
to the revised group size of 5 persons. Employers must exercise
heightened vigilance at the workplace. These measures will lower
transmission risks by reducing overall footfall and interactions at
common spaces at or near the workplace, and in public places, including
public transport.

C) Reduction of Activity and Event Sizes and Pre-Event Testing
Requirements

13.      To minimise the likelihood of large cluster formations, we will
reduce event sizes and/or lower the event size caps beyond which
pre-event testing[6] is required. More details on pre-event testing can
be found on the MOH website.
a.  14.      Congregational and other worship services. As a new
requirement, pre-event testing will be required if there are more than
100 attendees at any one time, capped at 250 attendees. To further
reduce the risks of transmission, congregational singing will be
suspended in places of worship to manage any risks of spread.
b.  Weddings. Marriage solemnisations may proceed with up to 250
attendees in total (including the wedding couple, excluding the Licensed
Solemniser and vendors) for the entire event, in zones of up to 50
attendees. Pre-event testing will be required for the wedding couple for
solemnisations involving more than 50 attendees. Similarly, wedding
receptions may proceed with up to 250 attendees in total (including the
wedding couple, excluding vendors) for the entire event, in zones or
timeslots of up to 50 attendees each. Due to the higher risk at
receptions where people are unmasked while enjoying their meals and come
into close and prolonged contact mingling with one another, pre-event
testing for all attendees (including the wedding couple) will be
required for wedding receptions involving more than 50 attendees.
c.  Funerals. Attendees at the day of the burial/ cremation will be
limited to no more than 30 persons, down from 50 persons currently. The
cap for other days of the wake remains at 30 attendees at any one time.
As pre-event testing is not required, attendees are reminded to maintain
safe distancing and keep masks on at all times to reduce the risk of
spread.
d.  Spectator/participation sports events (seated). As a new
requirement, all mass participation sports events will be suspended and
no spectators will be allowed.
e.  Live performances at designated venues, pilot business-to-business
events, cinemas. The maximum number of attendees allowed at live
performances and pilot business-to-business events will be reduced from
750 to 250. Pre-event testing will be required for all attendees of
these events if there are more than 100 attendees. Similarly, cinema
attendances will be reduced to 100 attendees, with the potential to
increase to 250 attendees with the additional requirement of pre-event
testing.
f.  Museums and Public Libraries. Operating capacity will be reduced
from 65% to 50%.
g.  Attractions and shows.All attractions that have received MTIâ€™s prior
approval will be permitted to operate at 50% operating capacity, a
reduction from 65%. The maximum number of attendees allowed at the
indoor and outdoor shows at these attractions will be reduced to 100.
Pre-event testing is not required.
h.  Tours. The maximum tour size offered by tour operators and tourist
guides will be reduced from 50 attendees to 20 attendees.
(D) Closure of Higher-risk Settings
14.      Based on overseas and local experience, higher-risk settings
such as indoor gymnasiums and indoor fitness studios have a tendency to
be hotspots for COVID-19 transmission. These settings and the associated
activities are where there is a high density of people who are unmasked
and in close proximity with one another, often for prolonged periods.

15.     During the next few weeks of heightened alert, to reduce the
risks of community transmission, we will close indoor gymnasiums and
indoor fitness/ health studios. These are small enclosed spaces where
people are frequently unmasked while exercising, and in close proximity
with many other unmasked people. Outdoor organised exercise
programmes/classes may still continue, subject to a class size of 30
attendees in total, with safe distancing measures. This includes group
sizes of up to 5 persons and a 3 metre distance between each group.

16.     We will remain vigilant and continue to monitor
other higher-risk settings and activities such as indoor sports halls
and personalised services such as massages, spas, and facials. If the
community cases situation does not improve, we will consider taking
further actions on these higher-risk settings and activities.

TRACETOGETHER-ONLY SAFE ENTRY (TT-ONLY SE) BROUGHT FORWARD TO 17 MAY
2021

17.     It was previously announced that TT-only SE was slated to be
implemented from 1 JUNE 2021 across all venues that experience a higher
throughput of visitors and/or where persons are likely to be in close
proximity for prolonged periods. The implementation of TT-only SE will
now be brought forward to 17 MAY 2021. From 17 MAY 2021, scanning of
SE-QR codes with the phone camera and Singpass App will be discontinued.
To ease the transition, ID check-ins will be retained until 31 MAY 2021.

SAFEENTRY GATEWAY REQUIRED TO BE DEPLOYED AT MORE VENUES FROM 15 JUNE
2021

18.      It was also previously announced that SafeEntry Gateway devices
would be required to be deployed at selected venues with high
visitorship, such as malls, large standalone retail stores, and cinemas,
beginning from 19 APRIL 2021. The requirement to deploy SafeEntry
Gateway devices will be extended to more public-facing venues where
people are likely to be in contact for prolonged periods, such as
hotels, dine-in F&B outlets, and sports and fitness centres. This will
facilitate a more seamless check-in experience and ensure that TT tokens
are functioning. These venues will be required to deploy the SafeEntry
Gateway by 15 JUNE 2021. The full list of venues required to deploy the
SafeEntry Gateway can be found on the SafeEntry website.

19.     These measures will strengthen the TT and SE Programmes, which
are critical digital tools to facilitate contact tracing and bring down
community spread. To date, more than 90% of the population have either
downloaded the TT App and/or collected the TT token. By maximising TT
coverage and active TT usage, we can facilitate quick detection and
ringfencing of local cases and their close contacts, and minimise
further spread to the community.

WORKING TOGETHER AND KEEPING SAFE

20.     Our recent cases show that we must continue to be vigilant in
our fight against COVID-19. We must continue to observe all the safe
management measures, practise good hygiene, and see a doctor and be
tested when sick. Vaccination also remains a key enabler to reduce the
risks of community transmission. Vaccination sites continue to remain
open during this period subject to safe management measures and we
encourage all to continue to be vaccinated when it is offered to you.

21.     We seek the cooperation of all Singaporeans to remain unified
and disciplined in the fight against COVID-19. Together, we keep our
loved ones and community safe.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
4 MAY 2021


------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] A breakdown of the local and imported cases detected with these
variants is outlined in Annex A.

[2] This also applied to all those who had obtained prior approval for
entry into Singapore.

[3] This excludes bilaterally negotiated travel lanes (e.g. Air Travel
Bubble, Reciprocal Green Lane).

[4] As of 4 May 2021, this refers to all countries/regions except
Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Mainland China, New Zealand, Taiwan, Hong
Kong SAR, and Macao SAR. Please refer to the Safe Travel Office Website
for updates to the countries/ regions identified.

[5] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.

[6] Vaccinated individuals can gain entry to events that implement
pre-event testing without the need to undergo pre-event testing, by
presenting relevant documentation. The maximum number of attendees
includes these vaccinated individuals.
