1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 19 Apr 2021

    As of 19 April 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there is 1 new case of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The case is in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 19 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 15 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 5 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



1

0



0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

19



19

0



5

14

TOTAL

20















2.    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 2 cases in the week before to 9 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 2 cases in
the week before to 5 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.   Amongst the 173 confirmed cases reported from 13 April to 19 April,
63 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 81 have tested
negative, and 29 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is linked to a previous case.

Case 62143 is a 44 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is the
spouse of Case 62045 [1] He works as a manager at Spice Grill Restaurant
(12 Gopeng Street) and Rangoon Bar & Bistro (94 Rangoon Road), and was
last at work on 15 April.

As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 62045, he was
placed on home quarantine on 16 April. He is asymptomatic, and was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 17 April during quarantine.
His result came back positive the next day, and he was conveyed in an
ambulance to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases. His serology
test result has come back negative, indicating that this is likely a
current infection.

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the case, including his co-workers, have
been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start
and end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic
cases. We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 19

Amongst the 19 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 62145 and 62172) are Singaporeans and 6 (Cases 62142,
    62144, 62146, 62160, 62170 and 62171) are Singapore Permanent
    Residents who returned from India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Nepal.
-   3 (Cases 62150, 62151 and 62156) are Dependant’s Pass holders who
    arrived from the Maldives and Philippines.
-   1 (Case 62159) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India.
-   2 (Cases 62157 and 62173) are Student's Pass holders who arrived
    from India.
-   3 (Cases 62139, 62140 and 62158) are Work Pass holders who arrived
    from India.
-   1 (Case 62153) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from India.
-   1 (Case 62155) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India to visit her family member who is a Singaporean.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.
4.   Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.    18 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,503 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.    There are currently 79 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 239 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 APRIL 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 62045 is a 41 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as an accountant at OM Universal Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 April.
