No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 27 Jan 2021

1.     As of 27 January 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There are 25 imported cases, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 22 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 3 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

25



25

0



3

22

TOTAL

25















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 18 cases in the week before to 5 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 6 cases in
the week before to 1 case in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 194 confirmed cases reported from 21 January to 27
January, 110 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 32
have tested negative, and 52 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 25

Amongst the 25 imported cases,

-   4 (Cases 59668, 59672, 59674 and 59675) are Singapore Permanent
    Residents who returned from India and the UAE.
-   1 (Case 59669) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   2 (Cases 59665 and 59671) are Work Pass holders who arrived from
    India and the UAE.
-   18 are Work Permit holders who arrived from India, Indonesia,
    Malaysia and the Philippines, of whom 16 (Cases 59673, 59677, 59678,
    59679, 59680, 59681, 59682, 59683, 59684, 59685, 59686, 59687,
    59688, 59689, 59690 and 59691) are foreign domestic workers.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.     18 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 59,104 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 38 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 220 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.
