1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 31 Mar 2021

1.     As of 31 March 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there is 1 new case of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The case is in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 33 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 31 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 3 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



0

1



0

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

33



33

0



3

30

TOTAL

34















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from none in the week before to 3 cases in the past week. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has also increased from none in the week
before to 3 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely monitor
these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

3.     Amongst the 145 confirmed cases reported from 25 March to 31
March, 52 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 67 have
tested negative, and 26 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1

There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked.

Case 61369 is a 22 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is
studying in the UK.

He had returned to Singapore from the UK on 11 January, and served SHN
at a dedicated facility until 25 January, and an additional 7-day
self-isolation at his place of residence until 1 February. His tests
taken on 24 January during SHN and on 29 January during self-isolation
were both negative for COVID-19. He is asymptomatic, and was detected
when he took a COVID-19 pre-departure test on 30 March in preparation
for his return to the UK. His test result came back positive on the same
day, and he was conveyed in an ambulance to the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases.

His Ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and
his serology test result has come back positive. Another test conducted
by Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 31 March was negative for COVID-19
infection. He could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA from a
past infection which are no longer transmissible and infective to
others, but given that we are not able to definitively conclude when he
had been infected, we will take all the necessary public health actions
as a precautionary measure.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 33

Amongst the 33 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 61370) is a Singapore Permanent Resident who returned from
    Myanmar.
-   1 (Case 61359) is a Dependant's Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   2 (Cases 61358 and 61365) are Student's Pass holders who arrived
    from India.
-   2 (Cases 61366 and 61396) are Work Pass holders who arrived from
    India and Qatar.
-   22 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India,
    Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines, of whom 8 (Cases 61367,
    61376, 61377, 61380, 61383, 61392, 61394 and 61399) are foreign
    domestic workers.
-   2 (Cases 61356 and 61360) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case
    61356 arrived from India to visit her family members who are
    Singapore Permanent Residents, and Case 61360 arrived from Papua New
    Guinea for a work project in Singapore.
-   3 (Cases 61361, 61373 and 61374) are Special Pass holders who are
    sea crew. Case 61361 arrived from the Philippines on a vessel, and
    had remained onboard until he developed symptoms and was conveyed to
    a hospital. Cases 61373 and 61374 arrived from Malaysia on a vessel,
    and were tested onboard without disembarking.

They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.
4. Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     11 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,149 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7 .     There are currently 37 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 165 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

31 MARCH 2021


