34 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



34 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 19 May 2021

     As of 19 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are 34 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection, of whom 30 are linked to previous cases, and 4 are currently
unlinked. Amongst them, 28 had already been placed on quarantine
earlier. The cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in
the dormitories. There are 4 imported cases, who had already been placed
on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new
cases today, 8 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 30 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

34



28

6



28

6

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

4



4

0



2

2

TOTAL

38













2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 49 cases in the week before to 187 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 9
cases in the week before to 49 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.   Amongst the 270 confirmed cases reported from 13 May to 19 May, 77
cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 163 have tested
negative, and 30 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 34

There are 34 cases in the community today, of whom 30 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63418 is a 45 year-old male Singaporean who works as a delivery
personnel at Fairfield Book Publishers Pte Ltd. He developed a fever on
14 May, and sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP)
clinic on the same day, and was tested for COVID-19. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test
result is pending.

Case 63443 is a 24 year-old female Singaporean who works as a basic care
assistant at Alexandra Hospital. She developed a cough on 17 May, the
same day she went for her Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) for COVID-19.
Her test result came back inconclusive on 18 May, and she was
immediately isolated. A second test was done on the same day, and her
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection. Her serology test
result is negative.

Case 63446 is a 28 year-old male Singaporean who works as an engineer at
Patec Ptd Ltd. He developed body aches and chills on 17 May and a fever
and sore throat on 18 May, and sought treatment at a GP clinic on 18
May. He tested positive for his antigen rapid test (ART), and was
immediately isolated and a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test was
taken on the same day. His PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May.

Case 63453 is a 45 year-old male Singaporean who is a Safe Distancing
Ambassador deployed at Westgate. He developed a cough and sore throat on
15 May, and a runny nose and body aches on 17 May but did not seek
medical treatment until 18 May at a polyclinic. He was tested for
COVID-19, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 19 May. His serology test result is pending. Case 63453 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 29 March, and the second dose on 25
April.

CHANGI AIRPORT TERMINAL 3 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63423 is a 31 year-old female Philippines national who works
part-time as a serving staff at Nana’s Green Tea at DUO Galleria. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 63257 [1], and was placed
on quarantine on 15 May. She developed a fever on 17 May, and was tested
for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. Her serology result is negative.

Case 63431 is a 33 year-old female China national who is an inspection
officer at AFPD Pte Ltd and had last gone to work on 8 May. As she is a
household contact of Case 62971 [2], she was placed on quarantine on 8
May, and tested for COVID-19 on 10 May. Her test result came back
negative on the same day. She developed a runny nose on 16 May, and a
fever on 17 May, and was tested for COVID-19 when she reported her
symptoms. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
18 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63444 is a 12 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at White
Sands Primary School and had last gone to school on 12 May. She is a
family member and household contact of Cases 63120 [3] and 63445, and
was placed on quarantine on 12 May. She is asymptomatic and was tested
for COVID-19 on 13 May. Her test result came back negative. She was
tested again on 18 May during quarantine and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is negative.

Case 63445 is a 46 year-old male Singaporean who works as a swimming
coach. He is a family member and household contact of Cases 63120 and
63444, and was placed on quarantine on 12 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 13 May even though he is asymptomatic. His test result came
back negative. He was tested again on 18 May during quarantine and his
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.
His serology test result is negative. Case 63445 received his first dose
of COVID-19 vaccine on 13 April and the second dose on 11 May.

Case 63447 is an 11 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at St
Stephen’s School and had last gone to school on 12 May. He is a family
member and household contact of Case 63139 [4], and was placed on
quarantine on 12 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 14 May and his test
result came back negative on the same day. He developed a fever on 17
May and was tested for COVID-19 again. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is
negative.

Case 63452 is a 12 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at St
Anthony Canossian Primary School and had last gone to school on 11 May.
She is a family member and household contact of Case 63146 [5], and was
placed on quarantine on 12 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 15 May
and her test result came back negative on the same day. She developed a
cough and sore throat on 18 May and was tested for COVID-19 again. Her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day.
Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63458 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who works at as an
attendant at  Changi Airport Terminal 3. He is asymptomatic, and was
detected when he was tested on 16 May as part of RRT. As he had been
identified as a household contact of Case 63382 [6], he was placed on
quarantine on 17 May. His pooled test result came back positive for
COVID-19 on the same day. An individual test was done on 18 May, and his
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 19 May. His
serology test result is negative. Case 63458 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 28 January and the second dose on 18 February.

LEARNING POINT CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63422 is a 39 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is
self-employed. He is a family member and household contact of Case 63282
[7], and was placed on quarantine on 15 May. He was tested for COVID-19
on 17 May, and developed a fever and anosmia on the same day. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology
test result is negative.

Case 63424 is a 6 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
student at Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan Kindergarten and had last gone to
school on 12 May. He is a family member and household contact of Case
63282 [8], and was placed on quarantine on 15 May. He is asymptomatic
and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
18 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63438 is a 69 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member of Case 63279 [9], and was placed on quarantine on 15
May. She is asymptomatic and was detected when she was tested on 17 May
during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 18 May. Her serology test result is pending. Case 63438
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 9 March and the second
dose on 30 March.

CHANGI PRISON COMPLEX CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63426 is a 56 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. He is a close contact of Case 63160 [10] and was placed
on quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May, and
developed a cough on 18 May. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63427 is a 46 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. He is a close contact of Case 63160 and was placed on
quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May, and
developed a fever on 18 May. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63428 is a 28 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. He is a close contact of Case 63160 and was placed on
quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May, and
developed a fever on 18 May. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is pending.

JIN TAI TONG FOOD INDUSTRIES CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63425 is a 26 year-old male Vietnam national who works as a
warehouse assistant at Jin Tai Tong Chinese Medical Centre, and is a
workplace contact of Case 63271 [11]. He was placed on quarantine on 15
May, and tested for COVID-19 on 17 May. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. On the same day, he developed
a fever and cough. His serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63442 is a 39 year-old male China national who works as a warehouse
assistant at Jin Tai Tong Food Industries Pte Ltd, and is a workplace
contact of Case 63271. He developed a sore throat and cough on 17 May,
and sought medical treatment at Raffles Hospital, where he was tested
for COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 18 May. His serology test result is pending.

MARINA BAY SANDS CASINO DEALER CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63439 is a 32 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
dealer at Marina Bay Sands Casino. She is a close contact of Cases 63317
[12] and 63350 [13], and was placed on quarantine on 16 May. She was
tested for COVID-19 on 17 May during quarantine, and her test result
came back positive on 18 May. On the same day, she developed a fever.
Her serology test result is pending.

SMS INFOCOMM CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63448 is a 29 year-old female Malaysia national who works at Sms
Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd. She is a close contact of Case 63318
[14] and was placed on quarantine on 17 May. She developed a fever and
cough on the same day. She reported her symptoms on 18 May, and was
tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63236 CLUSTER [15]

Already quarantined:

Case 63421 is a 39 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker, and household contact of Case 63349 [16] and was placed
on quarantine on 14 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May during
quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
18 May, and she developed a fever on the same day. Her serology test
result is negative.

CASE 63290 CLUSTER [17]

Already quarantined:

Case 63430 is a 36 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
preschool teacher at Safari House (Lakeside) but has not gone to work
since end-March 2021. She is a family member and household contact of
Case 63290, and was placed on quarantine on 15 May. She developed a sore
throat on 16 May and cough the next day but only reported her symptoms
at night. She was tested for COVID-19 on 18 May, and her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology
test result is pending.

CASE 63292 CLUSTER [18]

Already quarantined:

Case 63455 is a 65 year-old male Singaporean who works at SP Trading Pte
Ltd. He is a family member and close contact of Case 63292 and was
placed on quarantine on 15 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 18 May
during quarantine and his test result came back positive on 19 May. He
developed an itchy throat on the same day. His serology test result is
pending. Case 63455 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 27
March, and the second dose on 17 April.

Case 63456 is a 64 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and close contact of Case 63292 and was placed on
quarantine on 15 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 18 May during
quarantine and her test result came back positive on 19 May. She
developed a fever on 19 May. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63319 CLUSTER [19]

Already quarantined:

Case 63434 is a 44 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker and household contact of Case 63319, and was placed on
quarantine on 15 May. She was tested for COVID-19 during quarantine on
17 May, and her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
18 May. On the same day, she developed a fever and sore throat. Her
serology test result is negative.

Case 63435 is a 15 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Yu Ying
Secondary School, and had last gone to school on 12 May. He is a family
member and household contact of Case 63319, and was placed on quarantine
on 15 May. He developed a fever and cough on 17 May, and was tested for
COVID-19 on the same day. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63436 is a 48 year-old male Singaporean who works as a logistics
officer at Ceva Logistics. He is a family member and household contact
of Case 63319, and was placed on quarantine on 15 May. He developed a
fever and sore throat on 17 May, and was tested for COVID-19 on the same
day. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18
May. His serology test result is negative.

CASE 63336 CLUSTER [20]

Already quarantined:

Case 63440 is a 48 year-old male Singaporean who works as a personal
chauffeur. He had been identified as a close contact of Case 63336, and
was placed on quarantine on 16 May. He was tested for COVID-19 on 17 May
during quarantine even though he is symptomatic. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His serology test result
is pending.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63429 is a 39 year-old male Singaporean who is a Pastor at Hearts
Alive Church, and a family member and household contact of Case 63354
[21]. He developed a sore throat on 16 May, and was placed on quarantine
on the same day. He reported his symptom to MOH and was tested for
COVID-19. His ART came back positive on the same day, and his PCR test
result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 18 May. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 63433 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as a software
engineer at M-DAQ Pte Ltd, and is a family member and household contact
of Case 63289 [22]and was placed on quarantine on 15 May. He developed a
sore throat on 17 May and reported his symptom, and was tested for
COVID-19. On the same day, he developed a fever, runny nose and
headache. His test result came back positive on 18 May. His serology
test result is pending.

Case 63437 is a 53 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker, and a
family member and household contact of Case 63333 [23]. She developed a
cough on 15 May but did not seek medical treatment. As she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63333, she was placed on
quarantine on 16 May, and reported her symptom on 17 May. She was tested
for COVID-19 on the same day, and her test result came back positive on
18 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63454 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works as a preschool
teacher at My First Skool (235 Bukit Panjang), and is a family member
and household contact of Case 63418. She developed conjunctivitis on 15
May, and a fever the next day. She sought medical treatment on 16 May,
but as her fever had subsided, she was not tested for COVID-19. Her
fever recurred on 18 May. On the same day, as she had been identified as
a close contact of Case 63418, she was placed on quarantine. She
reported her symptoms and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her
test result came back positive on 19 May. Her serology test result is
pending. Case 63454 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 14
May.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63457 is a 34 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
flight stewardess at Jetstar Asia Airways. She was tested for COVID-19
under RRT on 16 May, and her pooled test result came back positive on 17
May. On the same day, as she had been identified as a family member and
household contact of Case 63413 [24], she was placed on quarantine. An
individual test was done on 18 May, and she developed a sore throat and
cough on the same day. Her test result came back positive on 19 May. Her
earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 18 April – were all negative
for COVID-19 infection. Her serology test result is pending. Case 63457
was received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 18 January, and the
second dose on 8 February.
B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 4

Amongst the 4 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 63450) is a Singaporean and 2 (Cases 63449 and 63451) are
    Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from India, Indonesia and
    the US.
-   1 (Case 63432) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    Japan for a work project in Singapore.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4. Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5. Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime, all
the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and placed
on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.   49 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,183 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.   There are currently 221 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 5 are in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 254 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63257 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Yio
Chu Kang Primary School. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
14 May.

[2] Case 62971 is a 51 year-old female Work Permit holder who is
employed by Ramky Cleantech Services Pte Ltd as a cleaner deployed at
Changi Airport Terminal 3. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 8 May.

[3] Case 63120 is a 47 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 May.

[4] Case 63139 is a 44 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 12 May.

[5] Case 63146 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works as a private
hire car driver with GoJek. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 12 May.

[6]  Case 63382 is a 95 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.

[7] Case 63282 is an 8 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is
a student at Yu Neng Primary School and attended classes at Learning
Point. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[8] Case 63282 is an 8 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is
a student at Yu Neng Primary School and attended classes at Learning
Point. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[9] Case 63279 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Kong
Hwa School and attended classes at Learning Point. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[10] Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by
SATS Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison Complex. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May

[11] Case 63271 is a 55 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
warehouse assistant at Jin Tai Mart. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 May.

[12] Case 63317 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
dealer at Marina Bay Sands Casino. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 16 May.

[13] Case 63350 is a 34 year-old male Malaysia national who is currently
unemployed, and a household contact of Case 63317. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[14] Case 63318 is a 36 year-old female Malaysia national who works at
Sms Infocomm (Singapore) Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 May.

[15] Case 63236 is a 53 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
personal chauffeur. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14
May.

[16] Case 63349 is a 36 year-old female Philippines national who is a
foreign domestic worker and a close contact of Case 63236. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[17] Case 63290 is a 64 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is currently unemployed. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
15 May.

[18] Case 63292 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who works as a digital
web designer. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[19] Case 63319 is a 77 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[20] Case 63336 is a 22 year-old female Singaporean who works at Invade
Industry Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16
May.

[21] Case 63354 is a 37 year-old female Singaporean who is a teacher at
Frontier Primary School. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 May.

[22] Case 63289 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works at ST
Telemedia Global Data Centres. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 May.

[23] Case 63333 is a 26 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
the National Institute of Education, and a part-time private tutor. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[24] Case 63413 is a 26 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
logistics officer at DCSS Technology Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 18 May.
