14 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



14 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 24 Jun 2021

       As of 24 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 14 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. Of the 14 cases, 11 are
linked to previous cases and have already been placed on quarantine. 3
were detected through surveillance, amongst whom 1 is linked to previous
cases and 2 are currently unlinked. There are 9 imported cases, who have
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore.
Amongst the new cases today, 15 are asymptomatic, and were detected from
our proactive screening and surveillance, while 8 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

14



11

3



7

7

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

9



9

0



1

8

TOTAL

23













2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 93 cases in the week before to 92 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 13 cases in
the week before to 22 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.   Amongst the 127 confirmed cases reported from 18 June to 24 June,
36 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 79 have tested
negative, and 12 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 14

There are 14 cases in the community today, of whom 12 are linked to
previous cases and 2 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64413 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter at
Changi General Hospital. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he
was tested for COVID-19 on 22 June as part of Rostered Routine Testing
(RRT). His test result came positive for COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
His earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 8 June – were all
negative for COVID-19 infection. He has tested preliminarily positive
for the Delta variant, and is pending further confirmatory tests. His
serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the
presence of early infection. Case 64413 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 14 January, and his second dose on 4 February.

Case 64420 is a 78 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
developed a fever and runny nose on 22 June and sought medical treatment
at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic the next day, where she underwent
both an antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
test. She was immediately isolated when her ART result came back
positive for COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR test result also came
positive for COVID-19 infection on 23 June. Her serology test result is
pending. Case 64420 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccination on
15 March and the second dose on 8 April.

115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64421 is a 34 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
homemaker. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
64221[1], she was placed on quarantine on 14 June. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 17 June during quarantine, and her test result was negative.
She developed a blocked and runny nose on 20 June but did not report her
symptoms until 22 June. She was tested for COVID-19 on the same day, and
her test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 23 June. Her serology
test result is pending.

Case 64435 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works part-time at
J&T Express Singapore. She is a family member and household contact of
Cases 64385[2] and 64436, and was placed on quarantine on 22 June. She
is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 23
June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
on 23 June. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64436 is a 12 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Crest
Secondary School, and was last in school on 18 May. He is a family
member and household contact of Cases 64385[3] and 64435, and was placed
on quarantine on 22 June. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he
was tested for COVID-19 on 23 June during quarantine. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 on 24 June. His serology test result is
pending.

CASE 64135 CLUSTER[4]

Already quarantined:

Case 64429 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He is a family member and household contact of Cases
64194[5] and 64402[6], and was placed on quarantine on 13 June. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 13 June during quarantine and his test result was
negative. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested again
for COVID-19 on 23 June. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 23 June. His serology test result is negative.

CASE 64184 CLUSTER[7]

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64419 is a 72 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. As she
had been identified as a contact of Case 64197[8], she was placed on
phone surveillance on 18 June. She developed a headache on 21 June but
did not seek medical attention or report her symptom. She subsequently
developed a runny nose on 22 June and sought treatment at a GP clinic on
23 June, where she underwent both an ART and PCR test. She was
immediately isolated when her ART result came back positive for
COVID-19. Her PCR test result also came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 23 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 64419
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 2 May, and the second
dose on 23 May.

CASE 64349[9] CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64414 is a 22 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He is a close contact of Cases 64387[10], 64415, 64416 and
64437, and was placed on quarantine on 21 June. He developed a fever,
nausea and shortness of breath on 23 June, and was tested for COVID-19
on the same day during quarantine. His test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 23 June. His serology test result is
negative.

Case 64415 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who works at Skyworks
Global Pte Ltd. He is a close contact of Cases 64387, 64414, 64416 and
64437, and was placed on quarantine on 21 June. He developed a headache
on 22 June and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during
quarantine. He subsequently developed a fever on 23 June, and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. He
developed a sore throat later that night. His serology test result is
negative.

Case 64416 is a 22 year-old female Singaporean who is a software
engineer at NCS Pte Ltd. As she had been identified as a close contact
of Cases 64387, 64414 and 64415, she was placed on quarantine on 21
June. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 22 June during quarantine. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. Her serology test result
is negative.

Case 64437 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who works at Unity
Assurance PAC. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
64387, he was placed on quarantine on 21 June. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 22 June during quarantine. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 23 June, and he developed a cough and
itchy throat on the same day. His serology test result is negative.

CASE 64359[11] CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64417 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works as an engineer at
SIA Engineering Company and was last at work on 11 June. As he had been
identified as a close contact of Cases 64359, 64390[12], 64391[13] and
64430, he was placed on quarantine on 20 June. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 21 June during quarantine, and his test result came back
negative for COVID-19 infection. He then developed an itchy throat on 22
June and was tested again for COVID-19. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. He subsequently developed
a fever and  dry throat on 23 June. His serology test result is negative
for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case
64417 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5 February, and the
second dose on 26 February.

Case 64430 is a 37 year-old female Singaporean who works as a senior
executive at Victoryland Pte Ltd and has been mostly working from home.
She is a family member and household contact of Cases 64390, 64391 and
64417 and a household contact of Case 64359, and was placed on
quarantine on 20 June. She was tested for COVID-19 on 21 June and 22
June during quarantine, and her test results came back negative. She is
asymptomatic and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 23
June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. Her serology test result is negative.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 64438 is a 74 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 64394[14], and was placed
on quarantine on 22 June. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she
was tested for COVID-19 on 23 June during quarantine. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June. Her serology test
result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of
early infection. Case 64438 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine
on 26 May.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 9

Amongst the 9 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 64427 and 64428) are Singaporeans and 2 (Cases 64418
    and 64434) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from
    India.
-   3 (Cases 64423, 64424 and 64432) are Work Permit holders who arrived
    from Indonesia, all of whom are foreign domestic workers.
-   2 (Cases 64431 and 64433) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders who
    arrived from Bangladesh for work projects in Singapore.

They have all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.   Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.   Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
6.   MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case 63515,
Case 63708 and Harvest @ Woodlands dormitory clusters for the past two
incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the clusters have now been closed.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.   27 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,140 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.  There are currently 136 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 4 are in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 182 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 35 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 64221 is a 67 year-old male Singaporean who is a general worker
at a food stall at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14 June.

[2] Case 64385 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 21 June.

[3] Case 64385 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 21 June.

[4] Case 64135 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
promoter at Guardian (ION Orchard). She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 10 June.

[5] Case 64194 is a 59 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
part-time cleaner at Crystal Lodge. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 13 June.

[6] Case 64402 is a 62 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
electrical building contractor at Seng Tat Enterprises. He was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 22 June.

[7] Case 64184 is a 27 year-old male India national who works as an
engineer at Ecoxplore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 12 June.

[8] Case 64197 is a 42 year-old female India national who is employed by
SQ 1 Development Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Ascent (Science Park Drive).
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.

[9] Case 64349 is a 24 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
financial consultant with Prudential. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 19 June.

[10] Case 64387 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Singapore Institute of Management. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 22 June.

[11] Case 64359 is a 38 year-old female Philippines national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
20 June.

[12] Case 64390 is an 8 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Alexandra Primary School. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
22 June.

[13] Case 64391 is a 4 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at My
First Skool (Tanjong Pagar Plaza). He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 22 June.

[14] Case 64394 is an 81 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 22 June.
