Update On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 24 Nov 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   1,365 cases remain warded in hospital. 203 cases require oxygen   |
|     supplementation in the general ward, 34 are unstable and under    |
|     close monitoring in the intensive care unit (ICU), and 59 are     |
|     critically ill and intubated in the ICU. The current overall ICU  |
|     utilisation rate is 56.1%.                                        |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, of the 72,913 infected individuals, 98.7%  |
|     had no or mild symptoms, 0.8% required oxygen supplementation in  |
|     the general ward, 0.2% were in the ICU, and 0.2% has died.        |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 23 November 2021, 94% of our eligible population has        |
|     completed their full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19      |
|     vaccines. Among the total population, 85% has completed their     |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, 86% has    |
|     received at least one dose, and 24% has received their booster    |
|     shots.                                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the past day, 2,275 cases were discharged, of whom 366 are   |
|     seniors aged 60 years and above. 2,079 new cases of COVID-19      |
|     infection were detected, with 2,030 in the community, 40 in the   |
|     migrant worker dormitories and 9 imported cases. The weekly       |
|     infection growth rate is 0.75.                                    |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+




SITUATION AT HOSPITALS

1.     As of 24 November 2021, 203 cases require oxygen supplementation
in the general ward, 34 are unstable and under close monitoring in the
ICU to prevent further deterioration, and 59 are critically ill and
intubated in the ICU. The current overall ICU utilisation rate is 56.1%.

FIGURE 1: Daily Adult ICU Bed Utilisation

[211124 Figure 1]

STATUS OF PATIENTS

2.     Over the last 28 days, 98.7% of local infected cases were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, 0.8% required oxygen supplementation
in the general ward, 0.1% were unstable and under close monitoring in
the ICU to prevent further deterioration, and 0.1% had been critically
ill and intubated in the ICU.

FIGURE 2: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition[1]

[211124 Figure 2]



3.     Seniors 60 years old and above, especially if unvaccinated,
continue to be more adversely affected by COVID-19:

FIGURE 3: Patients Needing Oxygen Supplementation, ICU Care or Died[2],
by Age Groups

[211124 Figure 3]



VACCINATION

4.     As of 23 November 2021, 94% of our eligible population (aged 12
years and above) has completed their full regimen/ received two doses of
COVID-19 vaccines. Among the total population, 85% has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, 86% has received
at least one dose, and 24% has received their booster shots.

5.     Over the past 7 days, the number of fully vaccinated and
non-fully vaccinated cases who are critically ill in the ICU are at 0.5
and 4.6 per 100,000 population respectively. Over the same period, the
number of fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated cases who died are
0.04 and 0.6 per 100,000 population respectively. Among seniors aged 60
and above, the number of fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated cases
who are critically ill in the ICU are 1.6 and 41.8 respectively. The
number of fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated seniors who died are
0.2 and 7.0 respectively.

FIGURE 4: 7-Day Moving Average of Number of Deaths and Active Cases in
ICU, per 100,000 Population by Vaccination Status [3]

[211124 FIGURE 4]

INFLOW AND OUTFLOW OF CASES

6.     Over the past day, 2,275 cases were discharged, of whom 366 are
seniors aged 60 years and above.

7.     As of 24 November 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected
a total of 2,079 new cases of COVID-19 infection, comprising 2,030
community cases, 40 dormitory resident cases and 9 imported cases.
Amongst the community cases today are 312 seniors who are aged 60 years
and above. The ratio of community cases for the past week over the week
before is 0.75.

8.     6 more cases, aged between 60 and 83 years, have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection. All of them, except for an
unvaccinated case, had various underlying medical conditions.

FIGURE 5: Number of Community Cases by Age

[211124 Figure 5]



FIGURE 6: Week-on-week Infection Ratio[4]

[211124 Figure 6]

9.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 7: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[5]

REMARKS

Society for the Aged Sick

3

24

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 24 cases, 2 are staff
and 22 are residents.

Sunlove Senior Care Centre @ 70 Buangkok View

1

24

Transmission amongst staff and clients. Of the 24 cases, 2 are staff, 17
are clients, and 5 are household members.

Pacific Healthcare Nursing Home (6 Lengkok Bahru)

7

32

Transmission amongst residents. Of the 32 cases, all are residents.

Jenaris Home @ Pelangi Village

7

94

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 94 cases, 2 are staff
and 92 are residents.



10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

24 NOVEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days. Based on
cases’ worst-ever condition; deceased cases previously in ICU are
counted under ‘Deceased’ and not under ‘Ever Critically ill and
Intubated in ICU’.

[2] May differ from the deaths reported for the day as the latter
includes those who have passed on earlier, but whose cause of death was
investigated and confirmed only later, e.g. Coroner’s cases.

[3] Non-fully vaccinated comprises persons who are partially vaccinated
and completely unvaccinated.

[4] Ratio of community cases in the past week over the week before.

[5] Includes new cases added today.
