Strengthening Our Tools to Achieve Covid Resilience



STRENGTHENING OUR TOOLS TO ACHIEVE COVID RESILIENCE


Published Date: 03 Sep 2021

    The easing of community measures as we exit Phase 2 (Heightened
Alert) has led to an increase in COVID-19 cases, which is not
unexpected. Nevertheless, the number of individuals with severe illness
requiring oxygen supplementation and ICU remains under control. These
point to our heightened COVID resilience â€“ the ability to live with
COVID-19 cases amongst us, with sufficient healthcare capacity for those
of us who do fall ill. We will continue to strengthen our tools for
achieving COVID resilience, by calibrating our safe management measures,
testing more extensively and contact tracing more surgically to reduce
and identify infections early. We will also begin transiting towards the
next phase of our National Vaccination Programme by commencing a booster
programme in September 2021.

UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION

2.    While COVID-19 case numbers have increased recently, the high
vaccination coverage in our population has allowed us to keep the
incidences of severe illnesses and deaths low thus far. This is
particularly important for those who are vulnerable to COVID-19, such as
our seniors. We will need to monitor the situation closely, as there is
a time lag between the onset of infections to serious illnesses and
deaths. In the meantime, we will stay in the current Preparatory Stage,
while we refine our public health measures and embark on pilot projects
such as the Vaccinated Travel Lane with Germany and Brunei and the home
recovery scheme for infected individuals with mild or no symptoms.
3.    Among the 2,369 infected individuals in the last 28 days, 1.1% of
vaccinated persons had severe illness compared with 8.2% among
unvaccinated persons. The number of persons requiring ICU has held
stable at around 6 to 7 in the last week, with those requiring oxygen
supplementation trending downwards.
4.    We have also continued to make good progress on our National
Vaccination Programme. As of 2 September 2021, 80% of our total
population have completed their full regimenand 83% have received at
least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccines. In terms of eligible
population, 88% have completed their full regimen.
5.    Coverage among our seniors continues to increase, and has also
reached 84% for those aged 70 years and above, and 90% for those aged
between 60 and 69 years. With such a high vaccination rate, and because
it is still possible to get a post-vaccination infection, we must expect
to see more vaccinated persons amongst our daily infection cases. But
the proportion of vaccinated persons who become infected remains smaller
than the proportion of unvaccinated persons who get infected. The
difference in proportions who become severely ill after infection, is
even more stark. Importantly, the evidence also clearly shows that
vaccination remains highly effective in preventing severe illness if a
vaccinated person were to catch the virus.
6.    We will have to continue our efforts to encourage vaccination
uptake amongst eligible individuals who have not stepped forward for
vaccination. As a safety precaution, these individuals will need to
continue to be subjected to vaccination-differentiated safe management
measures.
7.    We will be taking further measures to prepare to move to the
Transitionary Stage of opening. This includes expanding our tools for
testing and surveillance to keep infections from spiking, and a vaccine
booster programme to boost immunity levels of the elderly and
immunocompromised to better protect them.

EXPANDING TESTING AND SURVEILLANCE
8.    We will redouble our efforts to make regular testing part of the
new normal. Frequent testing remains key for us to identify cases early
and avoid huge peaks in cases that could risk straining our healthcare
system. For certain higher risk settings, the Government has mandated
rostered routine testing. But regular testing should not be confined to
persons working in these settings. We strongly encourage everyone,
including fully-vaccinated individuals, to self-test regularly with
Antigen Rapid Test (ART) kits as a matter of social responsibility,
especially if you are participating in higher-risk activities or
attending large-scale events. While the unvaccinated are more
susceptible to getting infected, vaccinated individuals are also at some
risk.
9.    Singaporeans can use the ART kits that are being issued to every
household between 28 August to 27 September 2021. To date[1], the Health
Sciences Authority has approved six ART self-test kits and these are
widely available at major retailers and e-commerce platforms. We are
actively reviewing new kits for public sale, and will continue to make
such self-test kits more readily accessible.
10.    Employers can also play their part in making regular testing a
new norm. The tripartite partners will discuss further guidelines to
promote the more pervasive use of antigen rapid tests at workplaces, and
as a key element of business continuity plans. This will go beyond the
Regular Rostered Testing (RRT) for higher risk settings and the
Vaccinate or Regular Test (VoRT) regime. Such regular testing will
enable us to detect cases early, help to reduce workplace transmission
and prevent large workplace clusters as more people return to on-site
work.
11.    To supplement regular self-testing, members of the public can now
make an appointment for a self-paid fast and easy test (FET) at the 20
Quick Test Centres (QTCs)[2] from 1 October 2021. This can be to fulfil
employment requirements, or for an unvaccinated person to attend a mass
event. The QTCs were set up by the Health Promotion Board to support
small businesses and freelancers who needed a supervised self-swab ART
to meet their testing requirements under the FET RRT regime. We will
also study the setting up of more testing sites across the island, so
that it will be easier for people to get themselves tested regularly.
12.    Individuals who test positive through these FETs or their ART
self-tests should visit a Swab-and-Send-Home Clinic for a
government-funded confirmatory PCR test to confirm your infection status
so that the Ministry of Health (MOH) can follow up with the appropriate
public health actions and to extend the appropriate care to you. If you
are symptomatic[3], visit a doctor immediately instead of self-testing
or booking a test at the QTCs.
BOOSTER VACCINATION STRATEGY
13.    Eight months have passed since our first residents were
vaccinated under our National Vaccination Programme. MOH with advice
from the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has reviewed
our strategies to achieve protection against COVID-19 through
vaccination, especially in light of the more transmissible variants that
have emerged globally.
14.    With the more transmissible Delta variant, it is not likely that
countries can achieve herd immunity without a very high population
vaccination rate of well over 90%. There has also been emerging data on
the waning of vaccine efficacy against infection with time. Although
evidence globally and locally continues to show that vaccines are very
effective in reducing severe illness and death. Some countries have also
decided to proceed with booster doses.
15.    Having reviewed the available evidence, as well as scrutinised
the safety and efficacy of booster doses administered globally, the
EC19V has recommended, and MOH has agreed, to commence a booster
programme in Singapore for two subgroups: (a) persons who are moderately
to severely immunocompromised and (b) persons aged 60 years and above,
as well as residents of aged care facilities.
16.    Immunocompromised persons have a blunted immune response to
vaccination, and are also at a higher risk of severe illness from
COVID-19. These individuals are recommended to receive a third dose of
the same mRNA vaccine two months after their second dose as part of
their primary course of vaccination to ensure that they start off with
an adequate protective immune response to vaccination to.
17.    Seniors are also at risk of severe COVID-19 infection and may
develop a lower immune response from their two-dose vaccination regimen.
This is coupled with the expected decline of their immunity over time,
as many were vaccinated earlier. They should receive a booster dose of
Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR) mRNA vaccine six to nine months
after having completed their primary course of vaccination regimen, to
ensure higher levels of protection from infection and continued high
levels of protection against severe disease, and reduce the possibility
of spikes in infections and more people falling severely ill.
18.    The additional dose recommendations for immunocompromised
individuals, and seniors aged above 60 years, as well as residents of
aged care facilities are aligned to the vaccination measures adopted in
other countries such as Israel and Germany. The US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has also approved a third dose for
immunocompromised individuals and is considering its recommendation for
seniors.
19.    The first batch of seniors aged above 60 years completed their
second doses around March this year. Hence they will be eligible for the
third dose within the month of September. More details on the
implementation of the booster shot will be announced later.

TOWARDS A COVID-19 RESILIENT SINGAPORE
20.    We have made significant progress in vaccinating our population,
adopting safe management measures, and moving towards a COVID-19
resilient nation. The recent rise in cases was not unexpected, and the
majority of these only have mild or no symptoms because of the high
level of protection conferred by the vaccines against severe illness. As
we continue to open and lead our lives as normally as possible, we
should expect cases to rise, but we must keep a close watch over the
number who fall severely ill.
21.    That said, we must continue to keep overall risks under control,
by continuing to adhere closely to the safe management measures that
have served us very well thus far. Reverting to a tightened posture must
be a last resort. We are therefore at a stage where we need all
employers, families and individuals to play a part â€“ to exercise
civic-consciousness, and to take care of themselves and the people
around them.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 SEPTEMBER 2021

[1] The list of ART self-test kits can be found
at https://www.hsa.gov.sg/consumer-safety/articles/covid19_ARTselftests.

[2] As of 31 August, there are 20 QTCs at Yishun Bus Interchange, Tekka
Facility, Bishan Sports Hall CP, Jurong West Active Sports CP, Pasir Ris
Sports Hall CP, 509 MPH Jurong West, 32 New Market Road Lvl 4, 75 Marine
Drive, 325A Ang Mo Kio Ave 3 Pavilion, 2 Toa Payoh Lor 7, 528 Ang Mo Kio
Ave 10 Badminton Hall, Bedok Town Square, 814 Hougang Ave 10, 506
Tampines Central 1, MOE Heritage Centre, Woodlands Temporary Bus
Interchange, 84A Redhill Lane, Punggol Town Square, 321 Clementi Ave 5
and 55 Sims Drive Pavilion.

[3] Mild symptoms: Fever, cough, fatigue, new loss of taste or smell,
sore throat, runny nose, muscle aches, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting;
Severe symptoms: shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, loss of
speech or movement.




