23 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



23 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 29 May 2021

                As of 29 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified that there are 23 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 19 are linked to previous cases, amongst
whom 13 have already been placed on quarantine, and 6 were detected
through surveillance. The remaining 4 are currently unlinked. The cases
are in the community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories.
There are 10 imported cases, who have already been placed on Stay-Home
Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 13
are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and
surveillance, while 20 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

23



13

10



20

3

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

10



10

0



0

10

TOTAL

33















2.             Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 199 cases in the week before to 138 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased
from 48 cases in the week before to 23 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.

3.             Amongst the 204 confirmed cases reported from 23 May to
29 May, 42 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 113 have
tested negative, and 49 serology test results are pending.



CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 23

There are 23 cases in the community today, of whom 19 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63838 is a 40 year-old female Singaporean who works as a teacher at
Rosyth School and was last in school on 18 May. She developed a blocked
nose on 25 May, and a runny nose on 26 May, and sought medical treatment
at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 26 May. She underwent both an
antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test on 27
May, and  was immediately isolated when her ART result came back
positive on the same day. She also developed a fever on 27 May. Her PCR
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. Her
serology test result is pending. Case 63838 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 13 March, and the second dose on 3 April.

Case 63844 is a 49 year-old female Singaporean who works as an executive
at Eng Soon Chair & Table Hire Service, and has been working from home.
She developed a fever and sore throat on 23 May, and a cough on 25 May,
but did not seek medical treatment until 27 May when she visited a GP
clinic. She was tested for COVID-19 on 28 May, and her result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is pending. Case 63844 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 18 May.

Case 63853 is a 33 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Hua Zai Eating House Pte Ltd. He developed loss of
taste on 26 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on 28 May,
where he underwent both an ART and PCR test, and was immediately
isolated when his ART result came back positive on the same day. His PCR
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 29 May. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 63854 is a 23 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a cook
at West Grill Station (Anchorvale). He developed a fever and headache on
28 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day,
where he underwent both an ART and PCR test. His ART result came back
negative, and he stayed at home while waiting for his PCR test result
which came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 29 May. His serology
test result is pending.

CHANGI PRISON COMPLEX CLUSTER
Already quarantined:

Case 63826 is a 48 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
63160[1], he was placed on quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 13 May, 17 May, 19 May, 20 May, 21 May, 23 May and 25 May,
and his test results came back negative. He subsequently developed a
fever on 25 May evening. He was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May and his
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. His
serology test result is pending.

CHEVY’S BAR AND BISTRO CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63846 is a 21 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen staff at Indo Bowl (39 Sultan Gate) and was last at work on 22
May. He is a workplace contact of Case 63777[2]. He developed a fever
and runny nose on 26 May and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on
28 May, where he underwent both an ART and PCR test, and was immediately
isolated when his ART result came back positive. His PCR test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology
test result is negative.

HONG YE GROUP CLEANERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63830 is a 58 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Cases 63761[3] and 63798[4],
and a family member of Cases 63799[5] and 63842. She developed a fever
and cough on 14 May but did not seek medical attention. As she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63761, she was placed on
quarantine on 26 May. She was tested for COVID-19 on 27 May during
quarantine, and her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 28 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Cases 63831 and 63832 are students at Boon Lay Garden Primary school and
were last in school on 18 May. Case 63831 is a 7 year-old female
Singaporean and Case 63832 is a 9 year-old female Singaporean. They are
family members and household contacts of Case 63677[6], and were placed
on quarantine on 24 May. They developed a fever on 26 May but did not
report their symptoms. They were tested for COVID-19 on 27 May during
quarantine, and their test results came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 28 May. Their serology test results are pending.

Cases 63836 and 63837 are family members and household contacts of Case
63677. Case 63836 is a 1 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Little Explorers Cove @ Boon Lay, and was last in school in April 2021.
Case 63837 is a 8 month-old female Singaporean who does not attend any
childcare facility. As they had been identified as close contacts of
Case 63677, they were placed on quarantine on 24 May. Case 63837
developed a fever on 24 May, and Case 63836 developed a fever on 27 May
but their symptoms were not reported. They were tested for COVID-19 on
27 May during quarantine, and their test results came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 28 May. Their serology test results are pending.

Case 63839 is a 32 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Case 63677. She developed a
fever on 23 May but did not seek medical attention. As she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63677, she was placed on
quarantine on 24 May but did not report her symptom. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 27 May during quarantine, and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. Her serology test result is
pending.

Case 63842 is a 47 year-old male Singaporean who works as a part-time
cleaner at ABBA Maintenance Pte Ltd. He is a household contact of Cases
63798, 63799 and 63802[7], and was placed on quarantine on 27 May. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 28 May
during quarantine, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. His serology test result is negative for the
N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case 63842
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 22 April and the second
dose on 21 May.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63843 is a 13 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Xinghua Primary School and was last in school on 19 May. She is a family
member and close contact of Case 63802. She developed a fever on 27 May
and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where she
was tested for COVID-19. As she had been identified as a close contact
of Case 63802, she was placed on quarantine on 28 May. Her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology
test result is pending.

JEM/ WESTGATE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63849 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at the National Library Board and has been working
from home. He is a family member of Cases 63417[8], 63508[9] and
63707[10], and was placed on quarantine on 17 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 20 May, 24 May and 25 May during quarantine and his test
results were negative. He developed a fever on 27 May night, and
informed MOH of his symptom the next day. He was tested again for
COVID-19 and his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 28 May. His serology test result is negative.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63829 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as a chef at
LeVeL33 (8 Marina Boulevard), and had visited Westgate on 20 May. He
developed a fever on 27 May, and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic
on the same day, where he was tested for COVID-19. His test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. His serology test result
is negative.

MCDONALD’S DELIVERY RIDERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63834 is a 28 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen staff and service crew at Pizza Hut Express (Holland Village
MRT). He is a household contact of Cases 63629[11], 63668[12],
63694[13], 63791[14] and 63796[15]. He underwent an ART and PCR test on
22 May, and both test results came back negative on the same day. As he
had been identified as a close contact of Case 63629, he was placed on
quarantine on 22 May. He developed a fever, sore throat, cough and runny
nose on 27 May and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. His serology
test result is pending.

CASE 63319 CLUSTER[16]

 Already quarantined:

Case 63860 is a 39 year-old female Singaporean who works as a teacher at
Pathlight School and had last gone to work on 14 May. She is a family
member and close contact of Case 63319, and was placed on quarantine on
15 May. She is asymptomatic and was tested for COVID-19 infection on 17
May during quarantine. Her test result came back negative on the same
day. She was tested for COVID-19 again on 28 May and her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. Her serology
test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence
of early infection. Case 63860 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 29 March and the second dose on 19 April.

Case 63861 is a 9 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Springdale Primary School and had last gone to school on 14 May. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 63319, and was placed on
quarantine on 15 May. She is asymptomatic and was tested for COVID-19
infection on 17 May during quarantine. Her test result came back
negative on the same day. She was tested for COVID-19 again on 28 May
and her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 29 May.
Her serology test result is negative.

CASE 63806 CLUSTER[17]

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63827 is a 44 year-old male India national who works as an IT
engineer at AXA Go Singapore. He is a household contact of Cases 63847
and 63848. He developed a fever and runny nose on 27 May and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he underwent
both an ART and PCR test, and was immediately isolated when his ART
result came back positive. His PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 28 May. His serology test result is pending. Case
63827 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 14 May.

Case 63847 is a 26 year-old male India national who works as an engineer
at GlobalFoundries Pte Ltd. He is a household contact of Cases 63827 and
63848. He developed a fever on 26 May, and sought medical treatment at a
GP clinic on 27 May, and underwent both an ART and PCR test on 28 May.
He was immediately isolated when his ART result came back positive. His
PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same
day. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63848 is a 26 year-old male India national who works at Success
Consultancy Pte Ltd and was last at work on 25 May. He is a workplace
contact of Case 63806 and household contact of Cases 63827 and 63847. He
developed a cough on 26 May night, and sought medical treatment at a GP
clinic on 27 May, and underwent an ART and PCR test on 28 May. On the
same day, he developed a sore throat. As he was identified as a close
contact of Case 63806, he was placed on quarantine on 28 May. His ART
and PCR test results came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the
same day. His serology test result is pending.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63859 is a 27 year-old male Malaysia national who works at
McDonald’s at 293 Yishun Street 22. He is a household contact of Case
63743[18], and was placed on quarantine on 26 May. He developed a fever
on 27 May, and a sore throat and shortness of breath on 28 May, and
reported his symptoms. He was tested for COVID-19 on 28 May during
quarantine, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 29 May. His serology test result is pending.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 10

Amongst the 10 imported cases,

-   3 (Cases 63855, 63856 and 63857) are Singaporeans and 2 (Cases 63821
    and 63858) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from India
    and the Philippines.
-   4 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia and the
    Philippines, of whom 1 (Case 63817) is a foreign domestic worker.
-   1 (Case 63835) is a Special Pass holder who is a sea crew. He
    arrived from Indonesia on a vessel and disembarked for a crew
    change. He was tested for COVID-19 during his SHN.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.           Please refer to the Annexesand MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.          Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.           16 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,423 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.
7.            There are currently 226 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 322 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 32 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

[1] Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by
SATS Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison Complex. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[2] Case 63777 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who works as a waiter
at Royz Et Vouz. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[3] Case 63761 is a 58 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park, and a workplace
contact of Case 63507. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 26
May.

[4] Case 63798 is a 10 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Lee
Kong Chian Gardens School, and a household contact of Case 63761. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[5] Case 63799 is a 37 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
part-time cleaner at ABBA Maintenance Pte Ltd, and is a family member of
Case 63761. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[6] Case 63677 is a 30 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaning supervisor at Changi Business Park, and a
workplace contact of Case 63507. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 23 May.

[7] Case 63802 is a 12 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
New Town Primary School. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
27 May.

[8] Case 63417 is a 38 year-old female Singaporean who works as an
analyst at HSBC. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 May.

[9] Case 63508 is a 40 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
engineer at Flexicon Singapore Pte Ltd, and is a family member and
household contact of Case 63417. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 20 May.

[10] Case 63707 is a 7 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Rulang Primary School, and is a family member and household contact of
Cases 63417 and 63508. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24
May.

[11] Case 63629 is a 31 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Pizza Hut (Punggol Plaza). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[12] Case 63668 is a 34 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Pizza Hut (Havelock II). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[13] Case 63694 is a 25 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Domino’s Pizza (Tanjong Katong). He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[14] Case 63791 is a 33 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen assistant at Pano Kato Grill, Pizza & Deli. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 27 May.

[15] Case 63796 is a 21 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
packer at DM Wines Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 27 May.

[16] Case 63319 is a 77 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 May.

[17] Case 63806 is a 49 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a manager at Success Consultancy Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 28 May.

[18] Case 63743 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works at
McDonald’s (The Woodgrove). He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 26 May.
