Update On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 21 Oct 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   1,613 cases are currently warded in hospital. 346 cases require   |
|     oxygen supplementation and 61 are in the intensive care unit      |
|     (ICU).                                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, of the 78,985 infected individuals, 98.6%  |
|     had no or mild symptoms, 1.0% required oxygen supplementation,    |
|     0.1% required ICU care, and 0.2% has died.                        |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 20 October 2021, 84% of our population has completed their  |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 85%    |
|     has received at least one dose.                                   |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 21 October 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected  |
|     a total of 3,439 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore,    |
|     with 2,937 in the community, 500 in the migrant worker            |
|     dormitories and 2 imported cases.                                 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+




SITUATION UPDATE

1.     Over the last 28 days, 98.6% of local infected cases were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, 1.0% required oxygen supplementation,
and 0.1% had been in the ICU. Amongst those who required oxygen
supplementation and ICU, 47.1% were fully vaccinated and 52.9% were
unvaccinated/ partially vaccinated.

FIGURE 1: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition[1]

[211021 Figure 1]





2.     16 more cases have passed away from complications due to COVID-19
infection [2]. Of these, 11 were male Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents,
4 were female Singaporeans, and 1 was a male Malaysian Work Permit
holder, aged between 61 and 93 years. Amongst them, 8 had been
unvaccinated against COVID-19, 1 had been partially vaccinated and 7 had
been vaccinated. 15 of them had various underlying medical conditions,
while a vaccinated case had no known medical conditions.

3.     Amongst those who have passed away over the last 28 days, 31.4%
were fully vaccinated and 68.6% were unvaccinated/ partially vaccinated.

FIGURE 2: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised, by Age Groups

[211021 Figure 2]





4.     As of 21 October 2021, 12pm, amongst all COVID-19 community cases
who have been onboarded or admitted, 17,617 (72.4%) cases are undergoing
Home Recovery. 4,223 (17.4%) cases are in Community Care Facilities, 880
(3.6%) cases are in COVID-19 Treatment Facilities, and 1,613 (6.6%)
COVID-19 patients are currently warded in hospital, mostly for
observation. 346 require oxygen supplementation, and 61 are in the ICU.

FIGURE 3: Breakdown of Number of Active Cases in Hospital, COVID-19
Treatment Facilities, Community Care Facilities, and Home Recovery
Programme in the Last 7 Days

[211021 Figure 3]

VACCINATION PROGRESS

5.     As of 20 October 2021, 84% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 85% has
received at least one dose.

6.     We have administered a total of 9,701,329 doses of COVID-19
vaccines under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech
Comirnaty and Moderna). In total, 4,625,367 individuals have received at
least one dose of vaccine under the national vaccination programme, and
4,567,666 individuals having completed the full vaccination regimen. In
addition, 230,651 doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health
Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered,
covering 119,711 individuals.

7.     To date, we have invited about 850,000 eligible individuals to
receive their booster doses. 637,326 individuals have received their
booster shots and another 98,000 have booked their appointments.

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING

8.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[3]

REMARKS

Banyan Home @ Pelangi Village

2

42

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 42 cases, 1 is a staff
and 41 are residents.

PCF Sparkletots @ Zhenghua (632A Senja Road)

3

17

Transmission amongst staff and students. Of the 17 cases, 5 are staff,
11 are students and 1 is a household contact of a case.

Bo Tien Home for the Aged

1

12

Transmission amongst residents. All 12 cases are residents.

AWWA Community Home for Senior Citizens

1

22

Transmission amongst residents. All 22 cases are residents.

Bukit Batok Home for the Aged

17

109

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 109 cases, 2 are staff
and 107 are residents.

MWS Christalite Methodist Home

3

118

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 118 cases, 13 are staff
and 105 are residents.

Apex Harmony Lodge

2

15

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 15 cases, 4 are staff
and 11 are residents.

ECON Medicare Centre & Nursing Home (10 Buangkok View Block 5)

1

65

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 65 cases, 3 are staff
and 62 are residents.

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

9.     As of 21 October 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected
a total of 3,439 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore,
comprising 2,937 community cases, 500 dormitory resident cases and 2
imported cases. Amongst the local cases today are 492 seniors who are
above 60 years.

FIGURE 5: Number of Community Cases by Age

[211021 Figure 5]

FIGURE 6: Number of Dormitory Cases by Age

[211021 Figure 6]



10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

21 OCTOBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days. Based on
cases’ worst-ever condition; deceased cases previously in ICU are
counted under ‘Deceased’ and not under ‘Ever in Intensive Care Unit’.

[2] Cases 87560, 115411, 116389, 119990, 123512, 126613, 126921, 128390,
130654, 130713, 141879, 145250, 148261, 159379, 162316 and 162362.

[3] Includes new cases added today.
