Suspension of Food Business Operations of Eng’s Wanton Noodles At 287
Tanjong Katong Road



SUSPENSION OF FOOD BUSINESS OPERATIONS OF ENG’S WANTON NOODLES AT 287 TANJONG KATONG ROAD


Published Date: 18 May 2021

          The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Singapore Food Agency
(SFA) are investigating an incident of gastroenteritis affecting a total
of 13 persons who were reported to have gastroenteritis symptoms after
consuming food prepared by Eng’s Wanton Noodles located at 287 Tanjong
Katong Road between 14 and 16 May 2021. They either sought outpatient
treatment, self-medicated, or recovered without treatment. None were
hospitalised.



2          In view of the suspected ongoing transmission, SFA has
suspended the food business operations of Eng’s Wanton Noodles located
at 287 Tanjong Katong Road with effect from 18 May 2021 until further
notice.



3          All food handlers working in the premises are required to
re-attend and pass the Food Safety Course Level 1 and test negative for
foodborne pathogens, before they can resume work as food handlers. The
appointed Food Hygiene Officer working at the premises are also required
to re-attend and pass the WSQ Conduct Food and Beverage Hygiene Audit
course before he/she can resume work as a Food Hygiene Officer. The
licensee is also required to clean and sanitise the premises, including
equipment and utensils.



4          Food safety is a joint responsibility. SFA would like to
remind food operators to observe good food and personal hygiene
practices at all times. SFA will not hesitate to take firm action
against anyone found to be in violation of the Environmental Public
Health Act. In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food
hygiene at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise
members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food
establishments not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via
the online feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our
follow-up investigations.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY

18 MAY 2021
