Update On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 05 Oct 2021

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   1,512 cases are currently warded in hospital. 247 cases require   |
|     oxygen supplementation and 34 are in the intensive care unit      |
|     (ICU).                                                            |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, of the 40,396 infected individuals, 98.3%  |
|     had no or mild symptoms, 1.4% required oxygen supplementation,    |
|     0.1% required ICU care, and 0.2% has died.                        |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 4 October 2021, 83% of our population has completed their   |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 85%    |
|     has received at least one dose.                                   |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 5 October 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected a |
|     total of 3,486 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, with |
|     2,767 in the community, 713 in the migrant worker dormitories and |
|     6 imported cases.                                                 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+





CONDITION OF HOSPITALISED CASES

1.     As of 5 October 2021, 12pm, 1,512 COVID-19 cases are currently
warded in hospital. Most are well and under observation. There are
currently 247 cases requiring oxygen supplementation, and 34 in the ICU.
Of those who have fallen very ill, 235 are seniors above 60 years.

2.     9 more cases have passed away from complications due to COVID-19
infection [1]. Of these, 6 were male Singaporeans/Permanent Residents
and 3 were female Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, aged between 64 and
90 years. Amongst them, 3 had been unvaccinated against COVID-19, 2 had
been partially vaccinated and 4 had been vaccinated. All of them had
various underlying medical conditions. In total, 130 have passed away
from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

FIGURE 1: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation[2]

[211005 Figure 1]

3.     Over the last 28 days, the percentage of local cases who were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms is 98.3%. 570 cases required oxygen
supplementation and 56 had been in the ICU. Of these, 50.3% were fully
vaccinated and 49.7% were unvaccinated/ partially vaccinated. 68 have
died, of whom 32.4% were fully vaccinated and 67.6% were unvaccinated/
partially vaccinated.

FIGURE 2: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition[3]

[211005 Figure 2]



FIGURE 3: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised[1], by Age Groups

[211005 Figure 3]

UPDATE ON VACCINATION PROGRESS

4.     As of 4 October 2021, 83% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 85% has
received at least one dose.

5.     We have administered a total of 9,310,419 doses of COVID-19
vaccines under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech
Comirnaty and Moderna). In total, 4,595,012 individuals have received at
least one dose of vaccine under the national vaccination programme, and
4,526,955 individuals having completed the full vaccination regimen. To
date, we have invited about 600,000 eligible individuals to receive
their booster doses. 321,228 individuals have received their booster
shots and another 107,000 have booked their appointments. In addition,
203,051 doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health
Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered,
covering 105,512 individuals.

LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 CASES

6.     As of 5 October 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected a
total of 3,486 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore, comprising
2,767 community cases, 713 dormitory residents cases and 6 imported
cases.

A) ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING

7.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[4]

REMARKS

United Medicare Centre (Toa Payoh)

7

14

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 14 cases, 8 are staff
and 6 are residents.

Learning Vision @ Changi Airport

1

13

Transmission amongst staff and students. Of the 13 cases, 2 are staff
and 11 are students.

ASPRI-Westlite Papan Dormitory

11

167

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents with no evidence of
spread beyond dormitory.

Tampines Dormitory

5

174

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents with no evidence of
spread beyond dormitory. New cases have already been quarantined.

Jurong Penjuru Dormitory 2

13

101

Intra-dormitory transmission amongst residents with no evidence of
spread beyond dormitory. New cases have already been quarantined.



B) SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

8.     There are 3,480 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection in Singapore, with 2,767 in the community and 713 in the
migrant worker dormitories. Amongst the local cases today are 643
seniors who are above 60 years.

FIGURE 5: Number of Community Cases by Age

[211005 Figure 5]

FIGURE 6: Number of Dormitory Cases by Age

[211005 Figure 6]





SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

9.     There are a total of 6 imported cases, who have already been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore.
Of these, 3 were detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 3 developed
the illness during SHN or isolation.

FIGURE 7: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[211005 Figure 7]



10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

5 OCTOBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases 73474, 78548, 90720, 94792, 98611, 99372, 101614, 102148 and
109763.

[2] Includes all cases who are currently hospitalised.

[3] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days.

[4] Includes new cases added today.
