Updates On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 30 Jul 2021

1.     As of 30 July 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 131 cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection, of which 28 are linked to the Jurong Fishery Port
cluster and 1 belongs to the KTV cluster. Of the 131 cases today, 64 are
linked to previous cases, and have already been placed on quarantine. 15
are linked to previous cases and were detected through surveillance. 52
are currently unlinked. Amongst the cases is 1 senior above 70 years who
is partially vaccinated, and is at risk of serious illness.

2.     There are 8 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. 2 were
detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 6 developed the illness during
SHN or isolation.

3.     In total, there are 139 new cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore today.

FIGURE 1: Number of Local Unlinked Cases and Linked Cases by Already
Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance [1]

[Figure 1]

CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

4.     571 cases are currently warded in hospital. Most are well and
under observation. There are currently 26 cases of serious illness
requiring oxygen supplementation, and 7 in critical condition in the
intensive care unit (ICU). 2 amongst these 33 cases are fully
vaccinated. Of these, 1 requires oxygen supplementation while 1 requires
ICU care as they have underlying medical conditions. 23 seniors above 60
years, of whom 22 are completely unvaccinated or partially vaccinated,
have fallen very ill.

FIGURE 2: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[Figure 2]

FIGURE 3: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[Figure 3]

5.     There is continuing evidence that vaccination helps to prevent
serious disease when one gets infected. Over the last 28 days, 43 local
cases required oxygen supplementation, were admitted to ICU or passed
away. 25 are unvaccinated, 16 are partially vaccinated and 2 are fully
vaccinated.

FIGURE 4: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition [2]

[Figure 4]

FIGURE 5: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status2

[Figure 5]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

6.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 961 cases in the week before to 878 cases in the past week. We are
likely to continue to see high number of cases in the coming days as we
step up efforts to detect them to contain their spread in the community.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 83
cases in the week before to 257 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving
average number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community
cases are 88.7 and 36.7 respectively.

FIGURE 6: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases [3]

[Figure 6]

FIGURE 7: Local Cases in the Last 14 Days by Age Group and Vaccination
Status

[Figure 7]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

7.     There are a total of 8 imported cases today. 2 were detected upon
arrival in Singapore, while 6 developed the illness during SHN or
isolation.

FIGURE 8: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[Figure 8]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

8.     There are 10 new clusters today. In total, there are currently 63
active clusters, ranging between 3 and 999 infections. MOH has been
monitoring existing clusters for any further transmission. As there have
been no more cases linked to the 105 Henderson Crescent cluster for the
past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been
closed.

FIGURE 9: Number of Active Clusters

[Figure 9]

FIGURE 10: List of Active Clusters

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL [4]

Case 65882 _(new cluster)_

1

4

Case 66142 _(new cluster)_

1

3

Case 66449 _(new cluster)_

1

4

Case 66450 _(new cluster)_

1

3

Case 66458 _(new cluster)_

2

4

Case 66473 _(new cluster)_

2

3

Zuellig Pharma _(new cluster)_

4

6

Case 66482 _(new cluster)_

3

4

Case 66851 _(new cluster)_

3

4

Case 66915 _(new cluster)_

5

6

Jurong Fishery Port/ Hong Lim Market & Food Centre* __

28

999

Samy’s Curry Restaurant

8

49

KTV lounges/clubs

1

250

Marina Bay Sands Casino

2

54

Punggol Primary School

1

12

Case 66464

2

6

Case 65999

0

3

Seng Leong Steel (Ent) Pte Ltd

0

3

Case 66538

0

3

Case 66517

0

3

Case 66487

0

4

Case 66468

0

3

Case 66462

0

3

Case 66370

0

3

Case 66215

0

4

Case 66106

0

3

Case 66377

0

5

Case 66435

0

6

Westlite Juniper Dormitory

0

14

Case 64697

0

76

Case 65893

0

6

Case 66542

0

3

Home’s Favourite Pte Ltd

0

6

Case 66413

0

4

Case 64752

0

8

PSC Express Pte Ltd

0

5

Case 66259

0

4

Case 65360

0

10

Case 65751

0

5

Case 65695

0

3

Case 65721

0

4

Case 65929

0

3

Case 65972

0

3

Case 66007

0

4

Apex Medical Centre (Jurong)

0

3

Case 65754

0

3

Case 65979

0

3

Case 65132

0

3

Case 66168

0

3

Case 65846

0

3

Case 65791

0

4

Case 65342

0

3

Case 65484

0

5

Case 65365

0

3

Case 64735

0

6

Case 65231

0

4

Case 64599

0

6

Case 64782

0

3

Case 64850

0

3

Khoi Grill & Hotpot __

0

8

Case 64642

0

3

Case 64388

0

3

Changi General Hospital

0

20

------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Please refer to Annex A for the affected markets and food centres.

PROGRESS OF NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

9.     As of 29 July 2021, we have administered a total of 7,429,918
doses of COVID-19 vaccines under the national vaccination programme. The
total number of doses administered was 7,429,918, covering 4,290,278
individuals. 3,261,603 individuals have completed the full vaccination
regimen, consisting of 121,963 recovered persons who received at least
one dose and 3,139,640 who received their second dose. In addition,
99,919 doses of Sinovac vaccines have been administered as of 29 July
2021, covering 73,053 individuals.

FIGURE 11: Progress of National Vaccination Programme

[Figure 11]

FIGURE 12: Percentage of Total Population who Received At Least First
Dose [5] and Completed Full Regimen [6]

[Figure 12]

FIGURE 13: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At Least
First Dose by Age Group

[Figure 13]

FIGURE 14: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen of
COVID-19 Vaccine by Age Group

[Figure 14]

10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

30 JULY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[2] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals). Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.

[3] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[4] Includes new cases added today.

[5] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[6] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine or one dose for vaccinated recovered individuals.
