No Prior Appointment Needed for Eligible Seniors Aged 60 and Above for
Booster Dose



NO PRIOR APPOINTMENT NEEDED FOR ELIGIBLE SENIORS AGED 60 AND ABOVE FOR BOOSTER DOSE


Published Date: 30 Sep 2021

        On 15 September 2021, we commenced the vaccination booster
programme for persons aged 60 years and above. We have been making good
progress. As of 29 September 2021, we have invited about 500,000
eligible seniors to receive their booster doses. 215,729 individuals
have received their booster shots and another 119,000 have booked their
appointments.
2.     To make it more convenient for our seniors to receive their
booster dose, from 1 OCTOBER 2021, all Singapore Citizens, Permanent
Residents and Long-Term Pass Holders, AGED 60 YEARS AND ABOVE WHO HAVE
COMPLETED THEIR SECOND DOSE ON 1 APRIL 2021 OR EARLIER, will be able to
walk into any Vaccination Centre, Polyclinic, or participating Public
Health Preparedness Clinic (PHPC) without a prior appointment to receive
their booster dose. Other seniors aged 60 and above will be eligible to
walk into any of these vaccination sites for their booster doses once
they meet the recommended window of six months after their second dose.
3.      Data from Israel's nationwide booster vaccination rollout shows
that a vaccine booster dose in persons aged 60 years and above maintain
strong protection against COVID-19 without additional safety concerns.
We urge all seniors who are eligible for the booster programme to step
forward to receive their booster dose.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
30 SEPTEMBER 2021

