9 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



9 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 12 Jun 2021

        As of 12 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 9 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. 4 are linked to previous cases, amongst whom 3 have
already been placed on quarantine, and 1 was detected through
surveillance. The remaining 5 cases are currently unlinked. This is
updated from our afternoon press release as we have withdrawn 3 cases
which were verified to be negative for COVID-19 upon further tests. The
9 cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. There are 9 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 11 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 7 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

9



3

6



7

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

9



9

0



0

9

TOTAL

18











2.        Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 129 cases in the week before to 32 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased
from 20 cases in the week before to 14 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.
3.        Amongst the 87 confirmed cases reported from 6 June to 12
June, 46 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 25 have
tested negative, and 16 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9

There are 9 cases in the community today, of whom 4 are linked to
previous cases and 5 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64159 is an 18 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at SIM
Global Education, and was last in school on 24 May. She developed a
runny nose and fever on 10 June and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 11 June, where she underwent both an
antigen rapid test (ART) and a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. She
was immediately isolated when her ART result came back positive. Her PCR
test result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 11 June.
Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64162 is a 27 year-old female Myanmar national who is a foreign
domestic worker.She developed a fever on 10 June and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on 11 June, where she underwent both an ART and
PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART result came back
positive. Her PCR test result also came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 11 June. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64169 is a 57 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a land
rigger at Jurong Port Pte Ltd. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when
he was tested for COVID-19 on 10 June as part of Rostered Routine
Testing (RRT). He was immediately isolated when his ART result came back
positive, and a PCR test was administered on the same day. His PCR test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 11 June. His
serology test result is negative. His Ct value was very high, which is
indicative of a low viral load. Another test taken on 12 June came back
negative for COVID-19 infection. He is likely to be shedding minute
fragments of the virus RNA, which are no longer transmissible and
infective to others, but we have taken all necessary public health
actions. Case 64169 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 23
January, and the second dose on 17 February.

Case 64174 is a 45 year-old female China national who is employed by
Hong Ye Group as a cleaner at ION Orchard. She is asymptomatic, and was
detected when she went for a COVID-19 test directed by her employer on
11 June. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64183 is a 68 year-old male Singaporean who works as a landscape
gardener at Amozonia Pte Ltd. He developed a runny nose and cough on 8
June and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on 11 June, where he
underwent both an ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when his
ART result came back positive. His PCR test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 12 June. His serology test result is pending.
Case 64183 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 18 April, and
the second dose on 9 May.

MARINA ARIEL CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64180 is a 40 year-old male Indonesia national who is employed by
Marina Offshore Pte Ltd as an engineer on board tugboat MARINA ARIEL. He
developed a cough on 1 June and a fever on 10 June but did not seek
medical attention. As he had been identified as a workplace contact of
Case 64149[1], he was placed on quarantine on 11 June. He reported his
symptoms on the same day and was conveyed to a hospital and tested for
COVID-19. Prior to that, he had not disembarked from the vessel. His
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 12 June. His
serology test result is pending.

Case 64181 is a 38 year-old male Indonesia national who is employed by
Marina Offshore Pte Ltd as a sea crew on board tugboat MARINA ARIEL. He
developed a fever on 1 June and a cough on 9 June but did not seek
medical attention. As he had been identified as a workplace contact of
Case 64149, he was placed on quarantine on 11 June. He reported his
symptoms on the same day and was conveyed to a hospital and tested for
COVID-19. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
12 June. His serology test result is pending.

CASE 63399 CLUSTER[2]

Already quarantined:

Case 64182 is a 35 year-old female Malaysia national who works as an
administrative staff at Ces Lamination Pte Ltd. She is a household
contact of Cases 63399, 63900[3] and 63917[, and was placed on
quarantine on 17 May. She developed a runny nose on 10 June during
quarantine but did not report her symptom until 11 June. She was tested
for COVID-19 on 11 June, and her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 12 June. Her serology test result is negative.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64158 is an 82 year-old female Singaporean who regularly helps out
at a sundry store at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Hawker Centre. She
developed a fever and shortness of breath on 10 June and sought medical
treatment at a polyclinic on 11 June, where she underwent both an ART
and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART result came
back positive. Her PCR test result also came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 11 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 64158
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 29 March, and the second
dose on 19 April.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0
There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 9
Amongst the 9 imported cases, 6 (Cases 64155, 64164, 64165, 64166, 64167
and 64175) are Singaporeans and 3 (Cases 64153, 64154 and 64156) are
Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from India, Portugal, Russia,
Thailand, the UK and US.
They have all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.       Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.        Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.        39 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,838 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.        There are currently 125 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 266 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 34 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
12 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 64149 is a 38 year-old male Indonesia national who is employed
by Marina Offshore Pte Ltd as a sea crew on board tugboat MARINA ARIEL.
He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 11 June.

[2] Case 63399 is a 35 year-old male Malaysia national who is a kitchen
crew at Kota Zheng Zong Bak Kut Teh (Serangoon Gardens). He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 17 May.

[3] Case 63900 is a 30 year-old male Malaysia national who works as an
administrative staff at Sin Wei Precision Mechanical. He was confirmed
to have COVID-9 infection on 30 May.

[4] Case 63917 is a 29 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
waitress at Chir Chir Restaurant (Bugis Junction). She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 31 May.
