Update On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 16 Oct 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   1,464 cases are currently warded in hospital. 310 cases require   |
|     oxygen supplementation and 62 are in the intensive care unit      |
|     (ICU).                                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, of the 68,147 infected individuals, 98.6%  |
|     had no or mild symptoms, 1.1% required oxygen supplementation,    |
|     0.1% required ICU care, and 0.2% has died.                        |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 15 October 2021, 84% of our population has completed their  |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 85%    |
|     has received at least one dose.                                   |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 16 October 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected  |
|     a total of 3,348 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore,    |
|     with 2,688 in the community, 656 in the migrant worker            |
|     dormitories and 4 imported cases.                                 |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+




SITUATION UPDATE

1.     Over the last 28 days, 98.6% of local infected cases were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, 1.1% required oxygen supplementation,
and 0.1% had been in the ICU. Amongst those who required oxygen
supplementation and ICU, 49.4% were fully vaccinated and 50.6% were
unvaccinated/ partially vaccinated.

FIGURE 1: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition[1]



[211016 Figure 1]



2.     9 more cases have passed away from complications due to COVID-19
infection [2]. Of these, 4 were male Singaporeans and 5 were female
Singaporeans, aged between 60 and 89 years. Amongst them, 5 had been
unvaccinated against COVID-19, 2 had been partially vaccinated and 2 had
been vaccinated. 8 of them had various underlying medical conditions,
while an unvaccinated case had no known medical conditions.





3.     Amongst those who have passed away over the last 28 days, 26.3%
were fully vaccinated and 73.7% were unvaccinated/ partially vaccinated.

FIGURE 2: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU, Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation or Hospitalised, by Age Groups





[211016 Figure 2]

4.     As of 16 October 2021, 12pm, amongst all COVID-19 community cases
who have been onboarded or admitted, 16,580 (76.5%) cases are undergoing
Home Recovery. 2,862 (13.2%) cases are in Community Care Facilities, 766
(3.5%) cases are in COVID-19 Treatment Facilities, and 1,464 (6.8%)
COVID-19 patients are currently warded in hospital, mostly for
observation. 310 require oxygen supplementation, and 62 are in the ICU.

FIGURE 3: Breakdown of Number of Active Cases in Hospital, COVID-19
Treatment Facilities, Community Care Facilities, and Home Recovery
Programme in the Last 7 Days





[211016 Figure 3]

VACCINATION PROGRESS

5.     As of 15 October 2021, 84% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 85% has
received at least one dose.





6.     We have administered a total of 9,598,504 doses of COVID-19
vaccines under the national vaccination programme (Pfizer-BioNTech
Comirnaty and Moderna). In total, 4,616,536 individuals have received at
least one dose of vaccine under the national vaccination programme, and
4,555,676 individuals having completed the full vaccination regimen. In
addition, 224,870 doses of other vaccines recognised in the World Health
Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) have been administered,
covering 117,283 individuals.





7.     To date, we have invited about 780,000 eligible individuals to
receive their booster doses. 554,004 individuals have received their
booster shots and another 100,000 have booked their appointments.





ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER CLOSE MONITORING

8.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 4: Large Clusters with New Cases



CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[3]

REMARKS

ECON Medicare Centre & Nursing Home (10 Buangkok View Block 5)

2

59

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 59 cases, 3 are staff
and 56 are residents.

United Medicare Centre (Toa Payoh)

4

123

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 123 cases, 17 are
staff, 105 are residents and 1 is a household member of a case.

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES



9.     As of 16 October 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected
a total of 3,348 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore,
comprising 2,688 community cases, 656 dormitory residents cases and 4
imported cases. Amongst the local cases today are 475 seniors who are
above 60 years.

FIGURE 5: Number of Community Cases by Age





[211016 Figure 5]

FIGURE 6: Number of Dormitory Cases by Age

[211016 Figure 6]



10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

16 OCTOBER 2021



[1] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days. Based on
cases’ worst-ever condition; deceased cases previously in ICU are
counted under ‘Deceased’ and not under ‘Ever in Intensive Care Unit’.

[2] Cases 92570, 94015, 103313, 105159, 128981, 129822, 130150, 133461
and 138258.
[3] Includes new cases added today.
