14 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



14 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 15 Jun 2021

          As of 15 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 14 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. Of the 14 cases in the
community, 5 are linked to previous cases and have already been placed
on quarantine. 9 were detected through surveillance, amongst whom 5 are
linked to previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.[1] There are no
imported cases today. Amongst the new cases today, 4 are asymptomatic,
and were detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while
10 were symptomatic.



SUMMARY OF NEW CASES






BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

14



5

9



10

4

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

0



0

0



0

0

TOTAL

14













2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 93 cases in the week before to 60 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 10 cases in
the week before to 18 cases in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.



3.  Amongst the 96 confirmed cases reported from 9 June to 15 June,
40 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 41 have tested
negative, and 15 serology test results are pending.



CASE DETAILS



A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 14



There are 14 cases in the community today, of whom 10 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.



CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES



Detected through surveillance:



Case 64233 is a 41 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She developed a sore throat, cough and anosmia on 14
June and her employer brought her to a regional screening centre (RSC),
where she was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her antigen rapid
test (ART) result was negative for COVID-19 but her polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
14 June. Her serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which
suggests the presence of early infection. Case 64233 received her first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 21 May. Individuals who are unwell or have
medical concerns should consult their primary care doctors, and may be
referred for COVID-19 screening at the RSCs. They should not go directly
to a RSC for COVID-19 tests unless they are invited as part of our
community surveillance testing operations.



Case 64236 is a 36 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker, and a
family member and household contact of Case 64230. She developed a fever
on 8 June, and subsequently loss of taste and smell on 10 June but did
not seek medical treatment until 14 June when she visited a General
Practitioner (GP) clinic, where she was administered both an ART and PCR
test. Both test results came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 14
June. Her serology test result is pending.



Case 64237 is a 30 year-old female Singaporean who works as a sales
representative at Imperva Singapore Pte Ltd. She developed a fever and
runny nose on 14 June and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the
same day, where she was administered both an ART and PCR test. Her ART
result came back positive on the same day, and her PCR test result came
back positive for COVID-19 on 15 June. Her serology test result is
pending.



Case 64238 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He developed a fever on 12 June and sore throat on 13 June.
He sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on 14 June, where he was
administered both an ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when
his ART result came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. His PCR
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 June. His
serology test result is pending.



115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER



Already quarantined:



Case 64223 is a 37 year-old female India national who is a food stall
vendor at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. She is a household
contact of Case 64225. As she had been identified as a close contact of
Case 64132[2], she was placed on quarantine on 11 June. She is
asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 13
June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 14 June. Her serology test result is pending.



Case 64224 is a 77 year-old male Singaporean who works as a food stall
vendor at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. As he had been
identified as a close contact of Case 64132, he was placed on quarantine
on 12 June. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for
COVID-19 on 13 June during quarantine. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 14 June. His serology test result is
negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early
infection. Case 64224 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 8
April, and the second dose on 29 April.



Case 64225 is a 39 year-old male India national who is a food stall
vendor at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He is a household
contact of Case 64223. As he had been identified as a close contact of
Case 64132, he was placed on quarantine on 11 June. He is asymptomatic,
and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 13 June during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
14 June. His serology test result is pending. Case 64225 received his
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5 May, and the second dose on 2 June.



Case 64226 is a 30 year-old male India national who works as a
supervisor at Keong Hong Construction Pte Ltd. He is a household contact
of Cases 64201[3], 64202[4], 64212[5] and 64213[6], and  was placed on
quarantine on 13 June. On the same day, he developed a fever and runny
nose, and was tested for COVID-19 on 13 June during quarantine. His test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 14 June. His earlier
tests from RRT – the last being on 7 June – were all negative for
COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is negative.



Case 64234 is a 33 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
cleaner employed by SATS Facility Management. She is a family member and
household contact of Case 64205[7], and was placed on quarantine on 13
June. She developed a fever and body aches on 14 June, and was tested
for COVID-19 on the same day during quarantine. Her test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 15 June. Her serology test
result is pending.





Detected through surveillance:



Case 64229 is an 87 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
frequently visited 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View. He developed a fever on
13 June and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic the next day, where
he underwent both an ART and PCR test. Both test results came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test
result is pending.



Case 64231 is a 35 year-old male India national who works as a sales
executive at Halnaz Frozen Goods Pte Ltd. He has been working from home
since 16 May but occasionally goes to the company’s shop at 115 Bukit
Merah View Market and Food Centre. He developed a fever on 12 June but
did not seek medical attention. On 14 June, he sought medical treatment
at Alexandra Hospital, where he was administered both an ART and PCR
test. His test results came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the
same day. His serology test result is pending.



Case 64232 is a 35 year-old female Singaporean who is a teacher at
KidsCampus (Chai Chee). She is a family member of Case 64218[8] but was
not placed on quarantine as Case 64218 had not reported her as a
contact. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she went for a
COVID-19 test at a GP clinic on 14 June, where she was administered both
an ART and PCR test. Both her test results came back positive for
COVID-19 on the same day. Her serology test result is pending.



Case 64239 is a 72 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
developed a cough and sore throat on 13 June and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on 14 June, where he was administered both an
ART and PCR test. His ART result was negative for COVID-19, and he
developed a fever on the same day. His PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 on 15 June. His serology test result is pending.
Case 64239 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 22 May, and
the second dose on 12 June.



OTHER LINKED CASES



Detected through surveillance:



Case 64230 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works as a senior
executive at NETS. He developed a fever and sore throat on 13 June and
sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 14
June, where he was administered both an antigen rapid test (ART) and
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. Both his ART and PCR test results
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 14 June. His serology test
result is pending.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0



There are no cases residing in dormitories today.





C)  IMPORTED CASES: 0



There are no imported cases today.



4.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.



5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.



6.  MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case 63290
and White Sands clusters for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28
days), the clusters have now been closed.



Extension of closure of 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre to 26
June



7.  MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection amongst
individuals who work in or visited 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food
Centre. There are so far 25 cases linked to the cluster. To break the
chain of transmission and enable deep cleaning of the premises, 115
Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre has been closed to all members of
the public from 13 June to 15 June 2021. With the detection of more
cases amongst the market and food centre staff and their close contacts
which suggests that there is ongoing spread with wider transmission, the
closure of 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre will be extended to
26 June 2021 (inclusive).



8.  All staff and tenants who have been working at 115 Bukit Merah
View Market & Food Centre from 25 May have been placed on quarantine,
and are tested during quarantine. In order to disrupt any wider,
undetected community transmission, we have commenced special testing
operations on 14 June for all staff and tenants who have been working in
116 Bukit Merah View from 25 May. We have also extended free COVID-19
testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and
116 Bukit Merah View between 25 May and 12 June. The testing operations
are in progress.



9.  All visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View between 25 May and
12 June are advised to monitor their health closely, and minimise social
interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their date of visit.
They are encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES



10.  17 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,911 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.



11.  There are currently 137 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 233 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 34 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

15 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  This is updated from the afternoon press release as 1 more case has
been linked to previous cases following epidemiological investigations.
[2]  Case 64132 is a 74 year-old male Singaporean who works at a sundry
store at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 9 June.

[3]  Case 64201 is a 29 year-old female India national who is currently
unemployed. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.

[4]  Case 64202 is a 17 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
ITE College Central. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13
June.

[5]  Case 64212 is a 21 year-old female Singaporean who works as an IT
engineer at IBM (Changi Business Park Central 1). She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.

[6]  Case 64213 is a 47 year-old male Singaporean who works as a cooking
assistant at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.

[7]  Case 64205 is a 71 year-old female Singaporean who works as a food
stall vendor at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 June.

[8]  Case 64218 is a 42 year-old male Singaporean who works as a hawker
at Telok Blangah Drive Food Centre. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 14 June.


