Updates On Local Covid-19 Situation



UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION


Published Date: 20 Jul 2021

1.     As of 20 July 2021, 12pm, Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified that there are 182 cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection of which 142 are linked to the Jurong Fishery Port cluster and
14 belong to the KTV cluster. Of the 182 cases today, 81 are linked to
previous cases, and have already been placed on quarantine. 75 are
linked to previous cases and were detected through surveillance. 26 are
currently unlinked. Amongst the cases are 2 seniors above 70 years who
are unvaccinated, and are at risk of serious illness.

2.     There are 13 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. 6 were
detected upon arrival in Singapore, while 7 developed the illness during
SHN or isolation.

3.     In total, there are 195 new cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore today. There are currently 5 cases of serious illness
requiring oxygen supplementation, and 1 in critical condition in the
intensive care unit (ICU).

FIGURE 1: Number of Community Unlinked Cases, and Linked Cases by
Already Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance, and Dormitory
Resident Cases[1]

[Figure 1]



FIGURE 2: Community Unlinked and Linked Cases in the Last 14 Days, by
Detection Method

[Figure 2]



FIGURE 3: Local Cases in the Last 14 Days by Age Group and Vaccination
Status

[Figure 3]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

4.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 37 cases in the week before to 643 cases in the past week. We are
likely to see rising cases in the coming days as we step up efforts to
detect them to contain their spread in the community. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 10 cases in the
week before to 68 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving average
number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community cases
are 82.1 and 9.7 respectively.

FIGURE 4: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases[2]

[Figure 4]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

5.     There are a total of 13 imported cases today. 6 were detected
upon arrival in Singapore, while 7 developed the illness during SHN or
isolation.

FIGURE 5: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[Figure 5]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

6.     There are currently 26 active clusters, ranging between 3 and 321
infections. MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case 64233
and 90 Redhill Close clusters for the past two incubation periods (i.e.
28 days), the clusters have now been closed.

FIGURE 6: Number of Active Clusters

[Figure 6]

FIGURE 7: List of Active Clusters

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[3]

KTV lounges/clubs

14

207

Jurong Fishery Port/ Hong Lim Market & Food Centre* __

142

321

Case 64697

4

48

Case 64599

1

6

Case 64752

1

7

PSC Express Pte Ltd

0

4

Case 64782

0

3

Case 64850

0

3

Khoi Grill & Hotpot __

0

8

Case 64642

0

3

Case 64735

0

4

Case 64388

0

3

105 Henderson Crescent

0

21

Changi General Hospital

0

20

115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre

0

94

Case 64478

0

3

Case 64394

0

4

Case 64444

0

3

Case 64264

0

8

Case 64349

0

10

119 Bukit Merah View

0

8

Case 64359

0

6

Case 64135

0

4

ION Orchard

0

5

Case 64184

0

14

Case 64374

0

3

------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Please refer to Annex A for the affected markets and food centres

Closure of Haig Road Market & Food Centre and Chong Pang Market
7.     MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection involving
markets and food centres which are likely seeded by fishmongers who
visited Jurong Fishery Port to collect their stock and sell at the
markets and food centres. We have detected 25 cases amongst individuals
who worked in or visited Haig Road Market & Food Centre, and 10 cases at
Chong Pang Market. To break the chain of transmission and enable deep
cleaning of the premises, Haig Road Market & Food Centre and Chong Pang
Market will be closed to all members of the public from 21 July to 4
August 2021.

8.     We have earlier announced that Chong Boon Market & Food Centre
has been closed to all members of the public from 18 July to 1 August
2021. All individuals who work in the market and food centre have
earlier been placed on quarantine, and tested during quarantine. To
uncover any community infection cases, we will also extend free COVID-19
testing to members of the public who had visited Chong Boon Market &
Food Centre between 3 July and 17 July 2021. Please refer to
https://go.gov.sg/cbmfc-testing for details on the testing operations.

Ongoing transmission at KTV clubs/lounges

9.     MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection amongst social
hostesses who had frequented KTV lounges or clubs currently operating as
F&B outlets, and their close social contacts. Our epidemiological
investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission at
Club MX (401 MacPherson Rd).

10.     All visitors to the affected premises are advised to monitor
their health closely, and minimise social interactions as far as
possible, for 14 days from their date of visit or interaction. They are
encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell. We also
advise all visitors to markets and food centres to avoid crowds and to
do your marketing during off-peak hours, or at supermarkets, and to
strictly observe the safe management measures.

CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

11.     332 cases are currently warded in hospital. Most are well and
under observation. There are currently 5 cases of serious illness
requiring oxygen supplementation, and 1 in critical condition in the
intensive care unit (ICU). None amongst these 6 cases is fully
vaccinated.

FIGURE 8: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[Figure 8]

FIGURE 9: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[Figure 9]

12.     There is continuing evidence that vaccination helps to prevent
serious disease when one gets infected. Over the last 28 days, 10 local
cases required oxygen supplementation, were admitted to ICU or passed
away. 7 are unvaccinated, 3 are partially vaccinated and none was fully
vaccinated.

FIGURE 10: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition[4]

[Figure 10]



FIGURE 11: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status⁴

[Figure 11]

PROGRESS OF NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

13.     As of 19 July 2021, we have administered a total of 6,837,200,
doses of COVID-19 vaccines under the national vaccination programme. The
total number of doses administered was 6,837,200, covering 4,164,922
individuals. 2,792,430 individuals have completed the full vaccination
regimen, consisting of 120,152 recovered persons who received at least
one dose and 2,672,278 who received their second dose. In addition,
69,095 doses of Sinovac vaccines have been administered as of 19 July,
covering 63,194 individuals.

FIGURE 12: Progress of National Vaccination Programme

[Figure 12]

FIGURE 13: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At Least
First Dose by Age Group[5]

[Figure 13]

FIGURE 14: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen[6] of
COVID-19 Vaccine by Age Group

[Figure 14]

14.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

20 JULY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[2] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[3] Includes new cases added today.

[4] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals). Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.

[5] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[6] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine or one dose for vaccinated recovered individuals.
