15 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



15 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 22 Jun 2021

     As of 22 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 15new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. Of the 15 cases, 3 are linked to previous
cases and have already been placed on quarantine. 12 were detected
through surveillance, amongst whom 7 are linked to previous cases and 5
are currently unlinked. There are 3 imported cases, who have already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 7 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 11 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES









BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

15



3

12



11

4

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

3



3

0



0

3

TOTAL

18















2.    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 60 cases in the week before to 104 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 17
cases in the week before to 21 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.    Amongst the 133 confirmed cases reported from 16 June to 22 June,
45 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 78 have tested
negative, and 10 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A)   CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 15

There are 15 cases in the community today, of whom 10 are linked to
previous cases and 5 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64374 is a 26 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as an analyst at Deutsche Bank, and is a household contact of
Case 64373. She developed a fever and sore throat on 15 June, and
subsequently a runny nose and cough on 17 June. She sought medical
treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 17 June but declined
to be tested for COVID-19. She was given 5 daysâ€™ medical leave and
advised to self-isolate. After Case 64373 tested positive for COVID-19
infection on 21 June, Case 64374 visited a GP clinic on the same day,
where she underwent both an antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) test. She was immediately isolated when her ART
result came back positive for COVID-19. Her PCR test result also
came positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 June. Her serology test
result is pending.

Case 64378 is a 77 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
developed a fever, cough and runny nose on 20 June, and sought medical
treatment at a polyclinic on 21 June, where he was tested for COVID-19.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same
day. His serology test result is pending. Case 64378 received his first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 13 April, and the second dose on 5 May.

Case 64379 is a 79 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
family member and household contact of Case 64377, and a close contact
of Case 64380. He developed a fever and cough on 21 June but did not
seek medical attention. He was detected when he was tested for COVID-19
on 21 June as part of our community surveillance testing for residents
of the Redhill Close area. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test result is
negative.

Case 64386 is an 82 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 when she
sought medical treatment at Gleneagles Hospital on 21 June for an
unrelated condition. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 22 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 64386
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccination on 11 June.

Case 64388 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a driver
at Omni Aquatic Supplies Pte Ltd. He developed a fever on 20 June, and
subsequently a cough and runny nose on 21 June. He sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on 21 June, where he was administered both an
ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when his ART result came
back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. His PCR test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 June. His serology test
result is pending.

115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64383 is an 11 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Convent of the Holy Infant Jesus (Kellock) and had last gone to school
on 18 May. As she had been identified as a family member and household
contact of Case 64334[1], she was placed on quarantine on 19 June. She
developed a fever on 21 June and reported her symptom. She was tested
for COVID-19 during quarantine on 21 June, and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64385 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for
COVID-19 on 21 June as part of our community surveillance testingfor
residents of the Bukit Merah View area.His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 June. His serology test result is
pending.

Case 64389 is a 43 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a stall
assistant at 115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 21
June as part of our community surveillance testing for workers and
visitors to 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 on 22 June. His serology test result is pending.

119 BUKIT MERAH VIEW CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64384 is a 74 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Theng
Liang Lee Services Pte Ltd as a part-time cleaner at 104 Henderson
Crescent. He developed a runny nose on 20 June but did not seek medical
attention. He was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 21 June as
part of our community surveillance testing for residents of the Bukit
Merah View area. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 221June. His serology test result is pending. Case 64384
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 28 April, and the second
dose on 19 May.

121 BUKIT MERAH VIEW CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64371 is a 62 year-old female Singaporean who works as a part-time
cook at Marine Parade Central Market and Food Centre, and was last at
work on 6 June. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
64330[2], she was placed on quarantine on 19 June. She is asymptomatic
and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 20 June during
quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 21 June.
Her serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests
the presence of early infection. Case 64371 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 10 April, and her second dose on 1 May.

90 REDHILL CLOSE CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64377 is a 69 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 64379. She developed a
sore throat, nausea and vomiting on 21 June and sought medical treatment
at Singapore General Hospital on the same day. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 21 June, and her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. Her serology test result is negative.

Case 64380 is a 50 year-old female Singaporean who is currently
unemployed, and is a close contact of Case 64379. She developed a cough
on 21 June but did not seek medical attention. She was detected when she
was tested for COVID-19 on 21 June as part of our community surveillance
testing for residents of the Redhill Close area. She subsequently
developed a fever on the same day. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 21 June. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 64233[3] CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64375 is a 52 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a consultant at Syndicate Road Pte Ltd and has been working from home
since 1 May. He is a family member and household contact of Case
64268[4], and a household contact of Case 64233, and was placed on
quarantine on 15 June. He was tested for COVID-19 on 15 June and 18 June
during quarantine, and his test results came back negative. He
subsequently developed a fever and runny nose on 20 June, and was tested
for COVID-19 again on 21 June. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test result is negative
for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case
64375 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 8 April, and his
second dose on 6 May.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64373 is a 24 year-old female China national who works as an
analyst at Axis Specialty Limited, and is a household contact of
Case 64374. She developed a fever and dry throat on 20 June and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day but was not tested for
COVID-19. She visited another GP clinic on 21 June where she underwent
both an ART and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART
result came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR test
result also came positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 June.
Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64387 is a 23 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Singapore Institute of Management (SIM). He developed a headache on 20
June, and fever on 21 June. He sought medical treatment at a GP clinic
on 21 June, where he underwent both an ART and PCR test. He was
immediately isolated when his ART result came back positive for COVID-19
on the same day. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
64349, he was placed on quarantine on 21 June. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 22 June. His serology test result is
pending.

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

Amongst the 3 imported cases,

b)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

c)  IMPORTED CASES: 3

-   1 (Case 64382) is a Singaporean and 1 (Case 64381) is a Singapore
    Permanent Resident who returned from India.
-   1 (Case 64372) is a Special Pass holder who is a sea crew. He
    arrived from Brazil on a vessel and had remained onboard until he
    was conveyed to a hospital.

They have all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

4.    Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.    Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.    MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case 63236
and Case 63714 clusters for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28
days), the clusters have now been closed.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.    28 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,098 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.    There are currently 142 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 173 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 35 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
22 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 64334 is a 35 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at J. Roger Preston Ltd. She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 18 June.

[2] Case 64330 is an 86 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 June.

[3] Case 64233 is a 41 year-old female Philippines national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
14 June.

[4] Case 64268 is a 12 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is a student at Tanglin Trust School. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 16 June.
