24 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



24 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 26 May 2021

1.     As of 26 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 24 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 21 are linked to previous cases, amongst
whom 14 have already been placed on quarantine, and 7 were detected
through surveillance. The remaining 3 are currently unlinked. 23 are in
the community, and 1 resides in a dormitory. There are 2 imported cases,
who had already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 6 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 20 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

23



13

10



20

3

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



1

0



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

2



2

0



0

2

TOTAL

26















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 187 cases in the week before to 165 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 40
cases in the week before to 30 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 227 confirmed cases reported from 20 May to 26 May,
54 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 138 have tested
negative, and 35 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 23

There are 23 cases in the community today, of whom 20 are linked to
previous cases and 3 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63725 is a 58 year-old female Singaporean who works at Chevy’s Bar
and Bistro. She developed a fever on 22 May and runny nose on 24 May.
She sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 24
May, where she underwent both an antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) test, and was immediately isolated when her ART
result came back positive on the same day. Her PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 May. Her serology test result is
pending. Case 63725 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 4
May.

Case 63738 is a 38 year-old male Malaysia national who works at Rong
Chang F&B Services Pte Ltd. He developed fatigue and body aches on 21
May but did not seek medical attention. On 25 May, he developed a sore
throat and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic. He underwent both an
ART and PCR test and was immediately isolated when his ART result came
back positive. His PCR test result also came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 25 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63743 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works at
McDonald’s (The Woodgrove). He developed a runny nose on 24 May and
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 26 May. His serology test
result is pending.

CHANGI PRISON COMPLEX CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63731 is a 49 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
63160[1], he was placed on quarantine on 13 May. He was tested for
COVID-19 on 13 May, 17 May, 18 May, 19 May and 21 May, and his test
results came back negative. He was tested for COVID-19 again on 24 May
and his test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection. He
developed diarrhoea on 25 May. His serology test result is pending.

HONG YE GROUP CLEANERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63740 is a 25 year-old female Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park, and was last at
work on 22 May. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
63507[2]. she was placed on quarantine on 22 May. She developed a fever
on 25 May, and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during
quarantine. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
26 May. Her serology test result is negative.

JEM/ WESTGATE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Cases 63728 and 63729 are students at Concord Primary School and had
last gone to school on 17 May. Case 63728 is an 11 year-old male
Singaporean and Case 63729 is a 6 year-old female Singaporean. They are
family members of Case 63357[3], and were placed on quarantine on 21
May. Case 63728 developed a cough on 22 May but did not report his
symptoms, and Case 63729 developed flu-like symptoms on 24 May. They
were tested for COVID-19 on 24 May during quarantine, and their test
results came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 May. Their
serology test results are pending.

Case 63734 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who works as a technician
at Singapore Refining Company Pte Ltd. He is a family member and
household contact of Cases 63469[4] and 63470[5], and was placed on
quarantine on 17 May. He developed a fever, sore throat and cough on 23
May but did not report his symptoms until 25 May, and was tested for
COVID-19 on the same day. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 25 May. His serology test result is pending.

Case 63735 is an 18 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at ITE
College West and was last in school on 14 May. He is a family member and
household contact of Cases 63675[6] and 63678[7] , and was placed on
quarantine on 23 May. He developed a sore throat on the same day, and a
fever on 24 May. He reported his symptoms, and was tested for COVID-19
on 25 May during quarantine. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63722 is a 67 year-old male Singaporean who works as a delivery
driver for DCH Auriga (Singapore) Pte Ltd, and frequently delivered
goods at JEM and Westgate shopping malls. He is asymptomatic and was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 24 May as part of our
testing operations for those who worked in or visited JEM and Westgate.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 May. He
has tested preliminarily positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is
pending further confirmatory tests. His serology test result is pending.
Case 63722 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 3 April, and
the second dose on 24 April.

Case 63724 is a 28 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
hairdresser at Kimage Hair Salon (Lot 1), and had visited JEM shopping
mall on 9 May. She developed a cough and body aches on 23 May, and
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day. She underwent both
an ART and PCR test, and was immediately isolated when her ART result
came back positive on the same day. Her PCR test result came back
positive on 25 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63733 is a 30 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a pastor at Grace Assembly of God church. She had visited JEM
on 11 May. She is asymptomatic and was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 24 May as part of our testing operations for those who
visited JEM and Westgate. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 25 May. Her serology test result is pending.

LEARNING POINT CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63736 is a 35 year-old female Thailand national who works as a
staff at Santai Café at United World College. She is a family member and
household contact of Case 63667[8], and was placed on quarantine on 23
May. She developed a sore throat, body aches and headache on 24 May and
was tested for COVID-19 on 25 May. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test result is
negative.

MARINA BAY SANDS CASINO DEALER CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63739 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a dealer
at Marina Bay Sands Casino, and was last at work on 14 May. He is a
household contact of Cases 63317[9], 63439[10] and  63350[11], and was
placed on quarantine on 16 May. He developed a headache and fever on 24
May, and was tested for COVID-19 on 25 May during quarantine after
reporting his symptoms. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. His serology test result is pending.

MCDONALD’S DELIVERY RIDERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63732 is a 41 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a receptionist at Wanderloft Hostel, and a part-time waitress
at Collins (Nex).  As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
63629[12], she was placed on quarantine on 23 May. She developed a fever
on 25 May and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. She also
developed a cough later that day. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 25 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63726 is a 58 year-old female Singaporean who works as a kitchen
staff and service crew at McDonald’s (Pasir Ris Elias Community Club),
and was last at work on 19 May. She is asymptomatic and was arranged by
her company to be tested for COVID-19 on 21 May. Her test result came
back positive for COVID-19 on 25 May. Her serology test result is
pending. Case 63726 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 3
May.

CASE 63236 CLUSTER[13]

Already quarantined:

Case 63727 is a 31 year-old male Hong Kong citizen who works as a senior
executive at Endowus. He is a family member and household contact of
Cases 63621[14] and  63641[15]. As he had been identified as a close
contact of Case 63236, he was placed on quarantine on 14 May. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 16 May during quarantine and his test result was
negative for COVID-19 infection. As he had been identified as a
household contact of Cases 63349[16] and 63421[17], his quarantine was
extended on 17 May and 18 May respectively. He was tested for COVID-19
again on 21 May and 23 May, and his test results were negative for
COVID-19 infection. He developed a cough on 24 May and was tested for
COVID-19 on the same day when he reported his symptom. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 25 May. His serology test
result is negative.

CASE 63515 CLUSTER[18]

Already quarantined:

Case 63741 is a 2 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at My
First Skool at 331 Sembawang Close. She is a family member and household
contact of Cases 63515 and 63654[19]. She developed a fever on 19 May,
but did not seek medical treatment. As she had been identified as a
close contact of Case 63515, she was placed on quarantine on 20 May. She
was tested for COVID-19 during quarantine on 25 May, and her test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology
result is pending.

CASE 63708 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63746 is a 74 year-old male Malaysia national who is a retiree. He
is a family member and household contact of Case 63709[20], and was
placed on quarantine on 25 May. He developed a cough and fever on the
same day, and was tested for COVID-19. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day His serology test result
is negative. Case 63746 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on
19 March.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63737 is a 64 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Case 63497[21], and was
placed on quarantine on 20 May. She developed a fever and sore throat on
24 May but did not report her symptoms. She was tested for COVID-19 on
the same day during quarantine, and her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 25 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63742 is a 52 year-old female Singaporean who works as a serving
staff at Chevy’s Bar and Bistro, and is a workplace contact of Case
63725. She developed a fever and cough on 25 May, and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where she underwent both an
ART and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART result came
back positive. Her PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63747 is a 20 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at the
National University of Singapore, and works part-time at Poke Theory
(Novena). She is a family member and close contact of Case 63714[22].
She developed a fever on 22 May, and a sore throat on 23 May. She sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic on 24 May, and underwent both an ART
and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when her ART result came back
positive on the same day. Her PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 26 May. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 63748 is a 38 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
at Tektronix Southeast Asia Pte Ltd, and is a workplace contact of Case
63721[23]. He developed a fever and sore throat on 23 May and sought
medical treatment at a GP clinic the next day where he underwent both an
ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when his ART result came
back positive on the same day. His PCR test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on 26 May. His serology test result is pending.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1

There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today who is linked to previous
cases.

Already quarantined:

Case 63723 is a 22 year-old male India national who works as a general
worker at H&W Communications Pte Ltd. He resides at Harvest @ Woodlands
(280 Woodlands Industrial Park E5). As he had been identified as a
roommate of Case 63622[24], he was placed on quarantine on 22 May. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 24 May
during quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 on
the same day. His earlier tests from RRT – the last being on 12 May –
were negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is
negative.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 2

Amongst the 2 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 63744) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Indonesia
    and is a foreign domestic worker.
-   1 (Case 63730) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    the UAE to visit his Singaporean family member.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     31 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,360 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.     There are currently 242 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 282 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 32 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

26 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by
SATS Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison Complex. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[2] Case 63507 is a 31 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by Hong
Ye Group Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Changi Business Park. He was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[3] Case 63357 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as an IT
engineer at AbbVie Operations Singapore Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[4] Case 63469 is a 60 year-old female Singaporean who is works as a
cleaner at The Cascadia. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
19 May.

[5] Case 63470 is a 59 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by
White Guard Security Pte Ltd as a security officer. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 19 May.

[6] Case 63675 is a 24 year-old female Singaporean who is currently
unemployed, and is a family member and household contact of Case 63678.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[7] Case 63675 is a 24 year-old female Singaporean who is currently
unemployed, and is a family member and household contact of Case 63678.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[8] Case 63667 is an 8 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Yu Neng Primary School. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 on 23 May.

[9] Case 63317 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
dealer at Marina Bay Sands Casino. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 16 May.

[10] Case 63439 is a 32 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
dealer at Marina Bay Sands Casino. She is a close contact of Cases 63317
and 63350. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 May.

[11] Case 63350 is a 34 year-old male Malaysia national who is currently
unemployed. He is a household contact of Case 63317. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[12] Case 63629 is a 31 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Pizza Hut (Punggol Plaza). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[13] Case 63236 is a 53 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
personal chauffeur. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14
May.

[14] Case 63621 is a 4 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Heart Field Kindergarten. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 22 May.

[15] Case 63641 is a 2 year-old male Hong Kong citizen who is a student
at Heart Field Kindergarten. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 23 May.

[16] Case 63349 is a 36 year-old female Philippines national who is a
foreign domestic worker and a close contact of Case 63236. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 16 May.

[17] Case 63421 is a 39 year-old female Philippines national who is a
foreign domestic worker and a household contact of Case 63349. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 May.

[18] Case 63515 is a 34 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
technician at Singapore Refining Company Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 20 May.

[19] Case 63654 is a 57 year-old male Singaporean who works as a cleaner
at Mencast Marine Pte Ltd, and is a family member and household contact
of Case 63515. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 May.

[20] Case 63709 is a 46 year-old female Singaporean who works as a
secretary at Prestige Legal LLP. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 on
24 May.

[21] Case 63497 is a 69 year-old male Singaporean who works as a cleaner
employed by Weishen Industrial Services Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 20 May.

[22] Case 63714 is a 74 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[23] Case 63721 is a 50 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
engineer at Tektronix Southeast Asia Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 24 May.

[24] Case 63622 is a 46 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
construction worker at H&W Communications Pte Ltd, and resides at
Harvest @ Woodlands. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 22
May.
