Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (7 July 2021)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (7 JULY 2021)


Published Date: 07 Jul 2021

      As of 7 July 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 5 cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. 3 are linked to previous cases, and have already
been placed on quarantine. 2 are currently unlinked. There are 7
imported cases, who have already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN)
or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. 5 were detected upon arrival in
Singapore, while 2 developed the illness during SHN or isolation. In
total, there are 12 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore today.

FIGURE 1: Number of Community Unlinked Cases, and Linked Cases by
Already Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance, and Dormitory
Resident Cases1

[FIG. 1 (7 JUL)]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES



2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 68 cases in the week before to 24 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 9
cases in the week before to 7 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving
average number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community
cases are 2.4 and 1.0 respectively.

FIGURE 2: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases²

[FIG. 2 (7 JUL)]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

3.    There are a total of 7 imported cases today. 5 were detected upon
arrival in Singapore, while 2 developed the illness during SHN or
isolation.



FIGURE 3: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/Detected
During SHN or Isolation

[Fig. 3 (7 Jul)]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

4.   There are currently 23 active clusters, ranging between 3 and 94
infections.

FIGURE 4: Number of Active Clusters



[Fig. 4 (7 Jul)]



FIGURE 5: List of Active Clusters

  ------------------------------------------- ----------- --------
  CLUSTER                                     NEW CASES   TOTAL³
  Case 64599 (new cluster)                    3           4
  Case 64388                                  0           3
  105 Henderson Crescent                      0           21
  Changi General Hospital                     0           20
  115 Bukit Merah View Market & Food Centre   0           94
  Case 64478                                  0           3
  Case 64394                                  0           4
  Case 64444                                  0           3
  Case 64264                                  0           8
  Case 64349                                  0           10
  119 Bukit Merah View                        0           8
  Case 64359                                  0           6
  Case 64135                                  0           4
  ION Orchard                                 0           5
  Case 64184                                  0           14
  Case 64374                                  0           3
  90 Redhill Close                            0           4
  Case 64233                                  0           3
  121 Bukit Merah View                        0           5
  Case 64263                                  0           4
  Case 64183                                  0           3
  MARINA ARIEL                                0           3
  Changi Prison Complex                       0           16
  ------------------------------------------- ----------- --------

CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES



5.   90 cases are currently warded in hospital.  Most are well and
under observation. There are currently 7 cases of serious illness
requiring oxygen supplementation, and 3 in critical condition in the
intensive care unit (ICU).



FIGURE 6: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation



[FIG. 6 (7 JUL)]

FIGURE 7: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[Fig. 7 (7 Jul)]

6.   There is continuing evidence that vaccination helps to prevent
serious disease when one gets infected. Over the last 28 days, 23 local
cases required oxygen supplementation, were admitted to ICU or passed
away. 20 are unvaccinated, 3 are partially vaccinated and none was fully
vaccinated.



FIGURE 8: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status and
Severity of Condition⁴

[Fig. 8 (7 Jul)]

FIGURE 9: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status⁴



[Fig. 9 (7 Jul)]

PROGRESS OF NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

7.   As of 6 July 2021, we have administered a total of 5,933,179 doses
of COVID-19 vaccines under the national vaccination programme. The total
number of doses administered was 5,933,179, covering 3,729,907
individuals. 2,203,272 individuals have received their second dose and
completed the full vaccination regimen.

FIGURE 10: Progress of National Vaccination Programme



[FIG. 10 (7 JUL)]

FIGURE 11: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At Least
First Dose by Age Group⁵

[FIG. 11 (7 JUL)]

FIGURE 12: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen⁶ with
any COVID-19 Vaccine by Age Group



[Fig. 12 (7 Jul)]

8.   Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

7 JULY 2021



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[2] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[3] Includes new cases added today.
[4] Fully vaccinated – more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen. Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose only of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-19 positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.

[5] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[6] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine.
