2 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



2 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 17 Jan 2021

1.     As of 17 January 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 2 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 28 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 27 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 3 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

BREAKDOWN BY

BREAKDOWN BY

NUMBER OF CASES

ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE

SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

2

0

2

2

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0

0

0

0

0

IMPORTED CASES

28

27

1

1

27

TOTAL

30

2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
stable at 8 cases per week in the past 2 weeks. The number of unlinked
cases in the community has decreased from 5 cases in the week before to
4 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely monitor these
numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2

There are 2 cases in the community today, both of whom are linked to
previous cases.

Case 59365

Case 59365 is a 44 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
administrative officer at the Singapore Police Force (2 Mowbray Road).
He developed a dry throat on 7 January but had not sought medical
treatment.

He was tested on 15 January as part of the special testing operations
commenced by MOH at his workplace following the confirmation of Case
59280 [1]. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
16 January and he was conveyed in an ambulance to the National Centre
for Infectious Diseases (NCID). His serological test result has come
back negative, indicating that this is likely a current infection.

Case 59387

Case 59387 is a 44 year-old female Singaporean who is a family member of
Case 59365, and a homemaker. She developed a fever and chills on 9
January, and subsequently loss of smell and taste on 13 January, but had
not sought medical treatment.

As part of our contact tracing efforts, she was contacted by MOH on 16
January following the confirmation of Case 59365, and was tested for
COVID-19 when she reported these symptoms. Her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection the next day, and she was conveyed to Ng
Teng Fong General Hospital in an ambulance. Her serological test result
has come back negative, indicating that this is likely a current
infection.

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the cases, including their family members
and co-workers, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be
tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that we can
detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for
the close contacts to determine if the case could have been infected by
them.

We strongly urge everyone to do their part to reduce the risk of
transmission. Those who are unwell, including those showing early/mild
symptoms, should be socially responsible and seek medical attention
immediately and stay at home to prevent the spread of illness to others.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 28

Amongst the 28 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 59371 and 59373) are Singaporeans and 1 (Case 59384) is a
    Singapore Permanent Resident who returned from India, Indonesia and
    the UAE.

-   3 (Cases 59358, 59359 and 59367) are Dependant’s Pass holders who
    arrived from India and the UAE.

-   2 (Cases 59353 and 59377) are Long-Term Visit Pass holders who
    arrived from India.

-   5 (Cases 59354, 59360, 59362, 59375 and 59381) are Work Pass holders
    who arrived from India, Lebanon, the Philippines and the UAE.

-   14 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh and India, of
    whom 1 (Case 59370) is a foreign domestic worker.

-   1 (Case 59374) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India to visit her Singaporean child.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

Case 59376 is a Work Permit holder who arrived from Bangladesh on 26
December 2020 and served SHN at a dedicated facility until 9 January
2021. His swab done on 6 January during SHN was negative for COVID-19,
and subsequent tests on 10 January and 12 January were also negative.
His test on 15 January came back positive for COVID-19 infection,
although the Ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral
load. His serological test result has also come back positive. Given
that these indicate likely past infection, we have classified the case
as imported. He is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus
RNA, which are no longer transmissible and infective to others.

3.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

4.     62 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,846 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

5.     There are currently 49 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 189 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 59280 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as a
para-veterinarian at the Singapore Police Force. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 13 January.
