9 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



9 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 01 May 2021

 As of 1 May 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed and
verified that there are 9 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. Of these, 7 are in the community, and 2 reside in a
dormitory. There are 25 imported cases, who had already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 26 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 8 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES



BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

7



2

5



5

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

2



0

2



0

2

IMPORTED CASES

25



25

0



3

22

TOTAL

34













2.    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 11 cases in the week before to 37 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 4
cases in the week before to 10 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.    Amongst the 213 confirmed cases reported from 25 April to 1 May,
78 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 101 have tested
negative, and 34 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS
A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 7

There are 7 cases in the community today, of whom 3 are linked to
previous cases and 4 are currently unlinked.

Case 62685

Case 62685 is a 19 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
student at Singapore Management University (SMU). She has been attending
classes virtually, except for a physical visit to SMU on 21 April.

She arrived from India on 28 December 2020, and served SHN at a
dedicated facility. While she was serving SHN, she had been identified
as a close contact of Case 58784during their flight to Singapore, and
was placed on quarantine from 29 December to 11 January 2021. Her test
taken on 8 January during quarantine was negative for COVID-19.

She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she took a COVID-19
pre-departure test on 28 April in preparation for a trip. Her test
result came back positive the next day, and she was conveyed to Changi
General Hospital in an ambulance. Her Ct value was very high, which is
indicative of a low viral load, and her serology test result has come
back positive. She could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
from a past infection which are no longer transmissible and infective to
others, but given that we are not able to definitively conclude when she
had been infected, we will take all the necessary public health actions
as a precautionary measure.

Case 62686

Case 62686 is a 22 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a spa
therapist at Spa 9 (41 Holland Drive).

She developed a runny nose on 28 April and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner clinic, where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test
result came back positive the next day. Her serological test result has
come back negative, indicating that this is likely a current infection.

Case 62688

Case 62688 is a 50 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a manager at DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (78 Shenton Way) but had
only gone to work on 26 April and 27 April in the past month.

She had been in Japan from 13 March to 9 April, and served SHN upon her
return to Singapore at a dedicated facility until 23 April. Her test
taken on 22 April during SHN was negative for COVID-19.

She developed body aches on 27 April and a fever the next day, and
sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner clinic on 29 April,
where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive
the next day, and she was conveyed to the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases (NCID) in an ambulance. Her serological test result has come
back negative, indicating that this is likely a current infection.

Case 62690

Case 62690 is a 15 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
Edgefield Secondary School (36 Punggol Field), and was last in school on
29 April.

She developed a sore throat on 28 April, and subsequently a runny nose
and anosmia the next day. She reported sick while she was in school on
29 April, and sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner clinic,
where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive
the next day, and she was conveyed to the National University Hospital
in an ambulance. Her serological test result is pending.

CASE 62541 [1] CLUSTER

Case 62680

Case 62680 is an 86 year-old female Singaporean whose spouse had been
warded in Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH) Ward 9D from 20 April to 22
April. She sought medical treatment for an unrelated condition at Khoo
Teck Puat Hospital on 30 April, and was found to have a fever. She was
tested for COVID-19 and her test result came back positive on the same
day. Her serological test result is pending.

Case 62687

Case 62687 is a 70 year-old male Singaporean who was admitted to TTSH
Ward 9D on 22 April. He tested negative for COVID-19 on 28 April while
warded at TTSH as part of our testing of staff and patients who have
been in the affected wards. He was transferred to NCID on 28 April. On
30 April, he developed fever and shortness of breath, and was tested
again. This time, his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection. His serology test result has come back negative.

Case 62697

Case 62697 is a 74 year-old female Singaporean who had been warded in
TTSH Ward 9D from 23 April to 27 April. She was placed on quarantine on
29 April, and tested for COVID-19 on 30 April during quarantine. Her
test result came back positive on 1 May and she was conveyed in an
ambulance to NCID. Her serological test result is pending.

B)   CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 2
There are 2 cases residing in a dormitory today.

Case 62691

Case 62691, a 35 year-old male Myanmar national, is a Work Permit holder
who arrived in Singapore in January 2020. He works as a stevedore at
Pasir Panjang Terminal and Brani Terminal. He resides at Pasir Panjang
Residence (33 Harbour Drive).

He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 28 April as
part of Rostered Routine Testing (RRT). His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 on the same day.His earlier tests from RRT – the
last being on 13 April – were all negative for COVID-19 infection. His
serology test result was negative for the N antigen, which suggests the
presence of early infection. Case 62691 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 14 January, and the second dose on 3 February.

Case 62684

Case 62684, a 23 year-old male India national, is a Work Permit holder
who arrived in Singapore in December 2020. He works as a stevedore at
Pasir Panjang Terminal, and resides at Pasir Panjang Residence (33
Harbour Drive).

He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 29 April as
part of our active case-finding following the detection of Case 62691.
His test result came back positive for COVID-19 the next day.His earlier
tests from RRT – the last being on 28 April – were all negative for
COVID-19 infection. His serology test result was negative for the N
antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case 62684
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 30 January, and the
second dose on 22 February.

C)   IMPORTED CASES: 25
Amongst the 25 imported cases,

-   5 (Cases 62696, 62698, 62699, 62700 and 62701) are Singaporeans and
    4 (Cases 62694, 62703, 62704 and 62705) are Singapore Permanent
    Residents who returned from Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the
    Philippines, UK and US.

&nbsp;
-   5 (Cases 62683, 62702, 62708, 62709 and 62710) are Dependant’s Pass
    holders who arrived from India and Nepal.

&nbsp;
-   4 (Cases 62693, 62706, 62707 and 62711) are Work Pass holders who
    arrived from India and Nepal.

&nbsp;
-   4 (Cases 62668, 62670, 62672 and 62675) are Work Permit holders who
    arrived from Indonesia and the Philippines, all of whom are foreign
    domestic workers.

&nbsp;
-   2 (Cases 62682 and 62689) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders who
    arrived from the Philippines. Case 62682 arrived to visit family
    members who are Singaporeans, and Case 62689 is here for a work
    project.

&nbsp;
-   1 (Case 62677) is a Special Pass holder who is a sea crew. He
    arrived from India and had remained onboard until he was conveyed to
    a hospital.

-   They had all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
    Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.    Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all
the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and placed
on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.    14 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,765 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.    There are currently 111 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 272 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 31 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
8.    Case 62573, an 88 year-old female Singaporean, has passed away
from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 1 May 2021. She had been
warded in TTSH Ward 9D from 14 April, and was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 28 April. She had a history of cancer, hypertension,
congestive cardiac failure, stroke and hyperlipidaemia. NCID has reached
out to her family and is extending assistance to them.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 62541 is a 46 year-old female Philippines national who is a
nurse at Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), and is deployed at Ward 9D. She
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 April. There are 16 cases
in total linked to TTSH so far.
