4 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



4 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 17 Apr 2021

         As of 17 April 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 4 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 35 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 34 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 5 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

4



2

2



4

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

35



35

0



1

34

TOTAL

39













2.          Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
increased from 2 cases in the week before to 7 cases in the past week.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 2
cases in the week before to 4 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.         Amongst the 175 confirmed cases reported from 11 April to 17
April, 51 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 84 have
tested negative, and 40 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 4

There are 4 cases in the community today, of whom 2 are linked to a
previous case and 2 are currently unlinked.

Case 62032

Case 62032 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works as a freelance
photographer.

He was detected when he was tested on 15 April for COVID-19 as part of
the Singapore Armed Force’s protocol to test national servicemen at the
start of their in-camp training. His pooled test on 15 April came back
positive for COVID-19, and an individual swab done on 16 April was also
positive for COVID-19 infection. He was conveyed in an ambulance to the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID), and developed a fever on
the same day.

Another test conducted by the National Public Health Laboratory (NPHL)
on 16 April was negative for COVID-19 infection but a subsequent test on
17 April by NPHL was again positive for COVID-19. His serological test
result has come back positive, which is indicative of a past infection.
He could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA from a past
infection, but given that we are not able to definitively conclude when
he had been infected, we will take all the necessary public health
actions as a precautionary measure.

Case 62045

Case 62045 is a 41 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident. She
works as an accountant at OM Universal Pte Ltd (11 Kaki Bukit Road 1)
but had not gone to work since onset of symptoms.

She developed a cough in the evening of 14 April after work, and sought
medical treatment at a General Practitioner clinic the next day, where
she was tested for COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 16 April and she was conveyed to NCID in an
ambulance. Her serology test result is pending.

One of her household contacts is Case 61536, a Work Pass holder who
arrived from India on 2 April. He tested positive for COVID-19 infection
on 2 April but was subsequently assessed to be a recovered case based on
his positive serology result on 4 April.

Case 62057

Case 62057 is a 31 year-old female Swiss national who is a Work Pass
holder. She is a senior research fellow at the National University of
Singapore and colleague of Case 61993[1], and had interacted with him on
12 April.

She developed a sore throat on 15 April but did not seek medical
treatment. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case 61993,
she was contacted by MOH on 16 April and placed on quarantine. She
reported her symptom and was conveyed in an ambulance to Ng Teng Fong
General Hospital where she was tested for COVID-19. Her test came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 16 April. Her serology test result is
pending.

Case 62063

Case 62063 is a 35 year-old male Indian national who is a Work Pass
holder. He is the brother of Case 61993 [1], and his household contact.
He works at DBS Bank (2 Changi Business Park Crescent) but has largely
been working from home. He last went back to his workplace between 6
April and 9 April.

As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 61993, he was
placed on home quarantine on 15 April. He developed a fever on 16 April
and was conveyed in an ambulance to NCID after he informed MOH of his
symptom. He was tested for COVID-19 and his test came back positive on
17 April. His serology test result is pending.

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the cases, including their family members
and co-workers, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be
tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that we can
detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for
the close contacts to determine if the cases could have been infected by
them.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0
There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 35

Amongst the 35 imported cases,

-   5 (Cases 62054, 62058, 62077, 62078 and 62097) are Singaporeans and
    5 (Cases 62055, 62060, 62061, 62073 and 62075) are Singapore
    Permanent Residents who returned from Brazil, Egypt, India,
    Indonesia and Liberia.
-   4 (Cases 62033, 62034, 62052 and 62053) are Dependant’s Pass holders
    who arrived from Nepal.
-   1 (Case 62050) is a Student’s Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   1 (Case 62051) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   17 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India,
    Indonesia and the Philippines, of whom 8 (Cases 62038, 62039, 62040,
    62041, 62081, 62082, 62086 and 62095) are foreign domestic workers.
-   2 (Cases 62048 and 62049) are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case
    62048 arrived from Bahrain for a work project in Singapore and Case
    62049 arrived from India to visit his family member who is a
    Singapore Permanent Resident.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.
4.           Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.           17 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 60,463 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

6.           There are currently 62 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 253 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 30 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

7.           The recent locally transmitted cases are a stark reminder
that the virus has not been eradicated and new cases and clusters can
easily emerge in our community, if we let our guard down. We urge
everyone, including those who have been vaccinated against COVID-19, to
continue to exercise social responsibility, and keep up our discipline
in adhering to the safe management measures. This is even more critical
as we resume and scale up more activities in Phase Three of re-opening,
and interactions in the community increase. Together we must work to
avoid an uncontrolled resurgence of cases that may necessitate a
tightening of

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 61993 is a 34 year-old male Indian national who is a senior
research fellow at the National University of Singapore. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 15 April.
