Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (6 Aug)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (6 AUG)


Published Date: 06 Aug 2021

      As of 6 August 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 93 cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. 56 are linked to previous cases, and have already
been placed on quarantine. 8 are linked to previous cases and were
detected through surveillance. 29 are currently unlinked. Amongst the
cases is 1 senior above 70 years who is partially vaccinated, and is at
risk of serious illness.

2.    There are 4 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in Singapore. All were
detected upon arrival in Singapore.

3.    In total, there are 97 new cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore today.

FIGURE 1: Number of Local Unlinked Cases and Linked Cases by Already
Quarantined/ Detected through Surveillance [1]

[figure 1]

PROGRESS OF NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

4.      As of 5 August 2021, 67% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines under the national
vaccination programme, and 78% has received at least one dose. In total,
we have administered a total of 7,897,570 doses of COVID-19 vaccines
under the national vaccination programme, covering 4,344,183
individuals, with 3,677,788 individuals having completed the full
vaccination regimen. In addition, 120,665 doses of Sinovac vaccines have
been administered as of 5 August 2021, covering 79,297 individuals.

FIGURE 2: Percentage of Total Population who Received At Least First
Dose[2] and Completed Full Regimen [3]
[figure 2]FIGURE 3: Percentage of Vaccinated Individuals who Received At
Least First Dose by Age Group

[FIGURE 3]

FIGURE 4: Percentage of Individuals who Completed Full Regimen of
COVID-19 Vaccine by Age Group

[figure 4]

FIGURE 5: Total number of doses administered

[figure 5]

CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.     546 cases are currently warded in hospital. Most are well and
under observation. There are currently 38 cases of serious illness
requiring oxygen supplementation, and 7 in critical condition in the
intensive care unit (ICU). 6 amongst these 45 cases are fully
vaccinated. Of these, 5 require oxygen supplementation while 1 requires
ICU care as they have underlying medical conditions. 35 seniors above 60
years, of whom 30 are completely unvaccinated or partially vaccinated,
have fallen very ill.

6.    Case 67716, a 63 year-old male Singaporean, has passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection on 5 August 2021. He had
developed a fever and cough on 3 August and was conveyed to Khoo Teck
Puat Hospital on 5 August after collapsing at home. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection after his demise. He had not been vaccinated
against COVID-19, and had a history of heart disease, stroke, diabetes
mellitus, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. In total, 41 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

FIGURE 6: Number of Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation

[figure 6]



FIGURE 7: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Age Group

[figure 7]



7.     There is continuing evidence that vaccination helps to prevent
serious disease when one gets infected. Over the last 28 days, 85 local
cases required oxygen supplementation, were admitted to ICU or passed
away. 53 are unvaccinated, 24 are partially vaccinated and 8 are fully
vaccinated.



FIGURE 8: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Vaccination Status &
Severity of Condition [4]

[figure 8]



FIGURE 9: Deaths and Active Cases in ICU or Requiring Oxygen
Supplementation, by Vaccination Status4
[figure\ 9]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR LOCAL CASES

8.    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 878 cases in the week before to 671 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 244
cases in the week before to 203 cases in the past week. The 7-day moving
average number of all linked community cases and all unlinked community
cases are 66.9 and 29.0 respectively.

FIGURE 10: 7 Day Moving Average Number of Community Unlinked and Linked
Cases [5]

[figure 10]



FIGURE 11: Local Cases in the Last 14 Days by Age Group and Vaccination
Status

[figure 11]

SUMMARY OF TRENDS FOR IMPORTED CASES

9.   There are a total of 4 imported cases today. All were detected
upon arrival in Singapore.

FIGURE 12: Number of Imported Cases by Detected Upon Arrival/ Detected
during SHN or Isolation

[figure 12]

ACTIVE CLUSTERS UNDER MONITORING

10.   There are 5 new clusters today. In total, there are currently 126
active clusters, ranging between 3 and 1,134 infections. As there have
been no more cases linked to Case 64599 cluster for the past two
incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.

FIGURE 13: Number of Active Clusters

[figure 13]



FIGURE 14: List of Active Clusters

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL [6]

Elsie’s Kitchen _(new cluster)_

3

4

JEM _(new cluster)_

1

4

Nimble/Knead _(new cluster)_

2

3

Chee Song Frozen Foods _(new cluster)_

3

3

Case 67702 _(new cluster)_

3

3

Jurong Fishery Port/ Hong Lim Market & Food Centre* __

6

1,134

Samy’s Curry Restaurant

1

57

Home’s Favourite Pte Ltd

1

15

Kian Hiap Construction

1

12

Case 67278

1

5

Case 67276

2

7

Case 67343

12

20

Case 67436

2

6

Case 67476

3

6

Case 67582

1

4

Case 67651

2

5

Case 66998 __

1

4

North Bridge Road Market & Food Centre

1

10

Case 65687

0

3

Case 66996

0

3

Case 67143

0

3

Case 67161

0

3

Case 67388

0

3

Case 67425

0

3

Case 67471

0

5

Case 67534

0

4

Case 66449

0

15

Marina Bay Sands Casino

0

60

Westlite Mandai Dormitory

0

10

Case 67041

0

6

Case 67051

0

5

Punggol Primary School

0

16

Zuellig Pharma

0

8

Case 67283

0

6

Case 66707

0

5

Case 66766

0

3

Case 66922

0

3

Case 67014

0

3

Case 67069

0

3

Case 67236

0

3

Case 66844

0

8

Case 66774

0

7

Case 67048

0

8

Case 66567

0

21

Case 65999

0

5

Institution S2 Selarang Park Complex __

0

8

KTV lounges/clubs

0

252

Case 65972

0

4

Changi General Hospital

0

3

Case 66940

0

4

Case 67017

0

3

Case 67078

0

3

Case 67227

0

3

Seng Leong Steel (Ent) Pte Ltd

0

5

Case 66804

0

5

Case 66754

0

5

Case 67085

0

4

Case 67204

0

3

Case 67297

0

3

Case 65952

0

5

Case 66929

0

5

Case 65929

0

4

Case 66764

0

3

Case 66868

0

3

Case 66888

0

3

Case 66913

0

3

Case 67004

0

4

Yishun Community Hospital

0

4

Case 66391

0

3

Case 66713

0

3

Case 66784

0

4

Case 66807

0

5

Case 66851

0

5

Case 65751

0

8

Case 66623

0

3

Case 65793

0

3

Case 66240

0

4

Case 66790

0

3

Case 66995

0

3

Case 66473

0

4

Case 66464

0

7

Case 66370

0

4

Westlite Juniper Dormitory

0

15

Case 64697

0

76

Case 66293

0

3

Case 65882

0

4

Case 66142

0

3

Case 66450

0

3

Case 66458

0

4

Case 66482

0

4

Case 66915

0

6

Case 66538

0

4

Case 66517

0

3

Case 66487

0

4

Case 66468

0

3

Case 66462

0

3

Case 66215

0

4

Case 66106

0

3

Case 66377

0

5

Case 66435

0

6

Case 65893

0

6

Case 66542

0

3

Case 66413

0

4

Case 64752

0

8

PSC Express Pte Ltd

0

5

Case 66259

0

4

Case 65360

0

10

Case 65695

0

3

Case 65721

0

4

Case 66007

0

4

Apex Medical Centre (Jurong)

0

3

Case 65754

0

3

Case 65979

0

3

Case 65132

0

3

Case 66168

0

3

Case 65846

0

3

Case 65791

0

4

Case 65342

0

3

Case 65484

0

5

Case 65365

0

3

Case 64735

0

6

Case 65231

0

4

Case 64782

0

3

Case 64850

0

3

Khoi Grill & Hotpot __

0

8

Case 64642

0

3

* Please refer to Annex A for the affected markets and food centres.

11. Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 AUGUST 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.

[2] Based on National Immunisation Registry data.

[3] Full regimen refers to individuals who have received both doses of
the vaccine or one dose for vaccinated recovered individuals.

[4] Fully vaccinated - more than 14 days after completing vaccination
regimen (both doses of the vaccine or one dose for recovered
individuals). Partially vaccinated – received 1 dose of 2-dose vaccine
or COVID-positive within 14 days of completing vaccination regimen.

[5] Incorporates re-classifications of earlier reported cases.


