Covid-19 Vaccination Channels for Overseas Singaporeans



COVID-19 VACCINATION CHANNELS FOR OVERSEAS SINGAPOREANS


Published Date: 11 Sep 2021

   As part of our ongoing efforts to encourage Singaporeans who are
medically eligible to be vaccinated under our national COVID-19
vaccination programme, Singapore will launch two dedicated vaccination
channels to make it more convenient for Singapore Citizens based
overseas to receive vaccination in Singapore.



2   Currently, returning Singaporeans from Category II-IV
countries/regions will have to serve the full Stay-Home Notice (SHN)
required of them, before they can receive their first dose of
vaccination, followed by the second dose three to four weeks later. For
Singaporeans with family and work commitments abroad, this makes it
difficult for them to return to Singapore for vaccination given the long
duration away from their resident countries.



3   Our present high local vaccination rates give us the foundation to
introduce two vaccination channels for overseas Singaporeans (OS)
arriving via Changi Airport and Tanah Merah Ferry Terminal:



  a.  Receive the first dose upon arrival in Singapore
without serving full SHN, then return to their resident country on the
next available flight/ferry. Individuals can complete their vaccination
regimen by repeating this process for their second dose; or



  b.  Receive the first dose upon arrival in Singapore,
complete full SHN at a dedicated facility, and receive the second dose
after the required dosing interval before returning to their resident
country.



4   OS under Option (b) will be subject to the prevailing border
measures on the pre-departure test, on-arrival testing regime as well as
length of SHN based on their 21-day travel history. OS under Option (a)
will also be subject to the same prevailing border measures until they
depart on the next available flight/ferry. Regardless of their
country/region of embarkation, the OS will be required to stay at an
appointed dedicated facility where the vaccination will be offered
on-site, while they are under SHN. For more information on the entry
requirements to Singapore for returning Singaporeans, please visit the
SafeTravel website.



5   While the COVID-19 vaccines will be provided by the Singapore
Government, OS will have to bear the associated costs of returning for
the vaccination, including accommodation at the designated facility,
swab tests and travel expenses.



6   OS should register their interest in using either vaccination
channel via https://go.gov.sg/vaccinationchannels. Prior to travelling
to Singapore, OS should obtain the relevant re-entry approvals and
return flight/ferry tickets to ensure they can return to their resident
countries after their vaccination. More information on the vaccination
channels can be found on MOHâ€™s FAQ page.





MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

MINISTRY OF HEALTH



SINGAPORE



11 SEPTEMBER 2021
