Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Guangdong Province,
Mainland China



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM GUANGDONG PROVINCE, MAINLAND CHINA


Published Date: 04 Jun 2021

       The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation. We will tighten our border measures for
travellers from Guangdong province, Mainland China given the increase in
the number of COVID-19 cases there.

TRAVELLERS FROM GUANGDONG PROVINCE TO SERVE 7-DAY SHN AT PLACE OF
RESIDENCE

2.   We had earlier announced that travellers from Mainland China will
be allowed to undergo a COVID-19 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test
upon arrival, and if the PCR test result is negative, they will be
allowed to go about their activities in Singapore, without a need to
serve a Stay-Home Notice (SHN).

3.    Given the increased cases observed in Guangzhou, we will be
tightening border control measures for travellers with travel history to
Guangdong province. From 5 JUNE 2021, 2359 HOURS:

a) Singapore Citizens (SCs), Permanent Residents (PRs) and Long-Term
Pass holders entering Singapore with travel history to Guangdong
province, Mainland China within the last 21 days before departure for
Singapore, will be subject to an on-arrival COVID-19 PCR test, a 7-day
SHN at their place of residence, and a COVID-19 PCR test before the end
of the SHN period.

b) Short-term travellers holding an Air Travel Pass (ATP) with travel
history to Guangdong province, Mainland China within the last 21 days
before departure for Singapore, will not be allowed to enter Singapore.

4.    All other travellers departing from Mainland China who have been
in Mainland China (excluding Guangdong province) in the last 21 days
prior to travel will continue to be subject to a COVID-19 test upon
arrival at the airport, in lieu of their SHN.

REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES

5.    As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check
for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be
prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
4 JUNE 2021
