4 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



4 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 20 Jan 2021

1.     As of 20 January 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 4 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 36 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 36 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 4 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

4



1

3



3

1

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

36



36

0



1

35

TOTAL

40















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 4 cases in the week before to 18 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 2 cases in
the week before to 6 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 213 confirmed cases reported from 14 January to 20
January, 118 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 36
have tested negative, and 59 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 4

There are 4 cases in the community today, of whom 1 is currently
unlinked and 3 are linked to previous cases.

Case 59455

Case 59455 is a 27 year-old male Malaysian national who is a Work Pass
holder. He works as a sales personnel at BS Industrial & Construction
Supply Pte Ltd (34 Kallang Place). He is a co-worker of Case 59429 [1].

He developed a sore throat on 14 January, and loss of smell and taste on
18 January but did not seek medical treatment and continued to go to
work.

As he had been identified as a close contact of Case 59429, he was
contacted by MOH on 18 January and conveyed to Tan Tock Seng Hospital
when he reported these symptoms. He was tested at the hospital, and his
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. His
serology test result has come back negative, indicating that this is
likely a current infection.

Case 59456

Case 59456 is a 29 year-old female Malaysian national who is a Work Pass
holder, and works at BS Industrial & Construction Supply Pte Ltd as a
sales personnel. She is a co-worker of Case 59429.

She developed a sore throat and difficulty in breathing on 16 January
but did not seek medical treatment and continued to go to work and
interact in the community.

On 18 January, as she had been identified as a close contact of Case
59429, she was contacted by MOH. She was conveyed to the National Centre
for Infectious Diseases (NCID) and tested for COVID-19 when she reported
these symptoms. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 the next
day. Her serology test result has also come back negative, indicating
that this is likely a current infection.

We strongly urge everyone to do their part to reduce the risk of
transmission. Those who are unwell, including those showing early/mild
symptoms, should be socially responsible and seek medical attention
immediately and stay at home to prevent the spread of illness to others.

Case 59474

Case 59474 is a 28 year-old female Malaysian national who is a Work Pass
holder. She works as a finance personnel at BS Industrial & Construction
Supply Pte Ltd.

She developed a cough on 19 January. On the same day, she was placed on
quarantine as a close contact of Case 59429, and was conveyed to Tan
Tock Seng Hospital when she reported her symptom. She subsequently
tested positive for COVID-19 infection, and was warded at NCID on the
same day. Her serology test result has also come back negative,
indicating that this is likely a current infection.

Investigations are ongoing to assess if there had been any breach of the
relevant prevailing safe management measures at their workplace. The
government takes a serious view of any breach and will take actions
should there be non-compliance.

Case 59473

Case 59473 is a 46 year-old male Indian national who is a Work Pass
holder, and works as a software engineer at APAR Technologies Pte Ltd (4
Shenton Way).

He had travelled to India between 9 March and 29 October 2020, and the
UAE between 29 October and 13 November. He served SHN at a dedicated
facility upon his return to Singapore until 27 November, and his swab
done on 23 November during SHN was negative for COVID- 19.

He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he took a COVID-19
pre-departure test on 19 January in preparation for a trip back to
India. His result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day
and he was conveyed to NCID. His Ct value is very high, which is
indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result has come
back positive. These indicate a likely past infection.

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the cases, including their family and
household members, as well as co-workers, have been isolated and placed
on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
case could have been infected by them.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 36

Amongst the 36 imported cases,

-   1 (Case 59459) is a Singaporean and 1 (Case 59458) is a Singapore
    Permanent Resident who returned from Canada and India respectively.
-   1 (Case 59469) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India.
-   1 (Case 59439) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India.
-   4 (Cases 59434, 59443, 59466 and 59467) are Student’s Pass holders
    who arrived from India, Indonesia, the UAE and Slovak Republic.
-   4 (Cases 59436, 59437, 59438 and 59463) are Work Pass holders who
    arrived from India and Ireland.
-   20 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India,
    Indonesia and Myanmar, of whom 7 (Cases 59447, 59451, 59452, 59453,
    59454, 59462 and 59464) are foreign domestic workers.
-   4 (Cases 59446, 59470, 59471 and 59472) are Short-Term Visit Pass
    holders. Cases 59471 and 59472 arrived from India to visit their
    Singaporean relatives, and Cases 59446 and 59470 arrived from
    Myanmar and the US for work assignments in Singapore.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

5.     32 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,926 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

6.     There are currently 45 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving. Of these, most are stable or
improving, and 1 is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
197 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These are those
who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive
for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from complications due to COVID-19
infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Case 59429 is a 39 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a sales personnel at BS Industrial & Construction Supply Pte
Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 18 January.
