24 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



24 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 02 Jun 2021

      As of 2 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 24 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. 19 are linked to previous cases, amongst
whom 17 have already been placed on quarantine, and 2 were detected
through surveillance. [1] The remaining 5 are currently unlinked. The
cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the
dormitories. There are 7 imported cases, who have already been placed on
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the new cases
today, 14 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive
screening and surveillance, while 17 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

24



17

7



15

9

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

7



7

0



2

5

TOTAL

31















2.    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 165 cases in the week before to 126 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 30
cases in the week before to 27 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.   Amongst the 184 confirmed cases reported from 27 May to 2 June, 55
cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 108 have tested
negative, and 21 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 24

There are 24 cases in the community today, of whom 19 are linked to
previous cases and 5 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63939 is a 22 year-old female Myanmar national who works as a
healthcare assistant at Grace Lodge. She is asymptomatic, and was
detected when she was tested on 31 May as part of our surveillance
testing of nursing home staff . Her pooled test result came back
positive for COVID-19 on the same day. An individual test was done on 31
May, and her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 1
June. Her serology test result is positive. Case 63939 received her
first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 4  February and the second dose on 25
February.

Case 63941 is a 36 year-old female Vietnam national who is a homemaker.
She developed a fever on 29 May, and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic on 31 May, where she was tested for
COVID-19. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 1
June. Her serology test result is negative.

Case 63964 is a 61 year-old female Singaporean who works at Singapore
Pools at NTUC FairPrice (Clementi Avenue 3), and had last gone to work
on 26 May. She developed body aches on 30 May, and subsequently a fever
and sore throat on 1 June. She sought medical treatment at a GP clinic
on the same day, where she underwent an antigen rapid test (ART). She
was immediately isolated when her ART result came back positive, and a
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test was administered. Her PCR test
result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 1 June. Her
serology test result is pending. Case 63964 received her first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 30 May.

Case 63971 is a 43 year-old female Singaporean who works in an
administrative role at Changi Prison Complex, and had last gone to work
on 2 March. She developed a cough on 29 May but did not seek medical
attention. She was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 1 June
as part of our special testing operations for residents of Hougang
Avenue 8. She developed a sore throat, blocked nose and loss of taste
the next day, and her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 2 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 63971
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 28 January and the second
dose on 18 February.

Case 63973 is an 80 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
asymptomatic and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 1 June
as part of our special testing operations for residents of Yishun Street
72. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the
same day. Her serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which
suggests the presence of early infection. Case 63973 received her first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 11 March and the second dose on 1 April.

CHANGI PRISON COMPLEX CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63943 is a 46 year-old male Singaporean who is an inmate at Changi
Prison Complex. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
63160 [2], he was placed on quarantine on 13 May. He was tested
regularly for COVID-19 during quarantine – the last test being on 29 May
– and all his test results were negative. He is asymptomatic and was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 again on 31 May and his test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection. He has tested
preliminarily positive for the B.1.617 variant, and is pending further
confirmatory tests. His serology test result is pending.

CHEVY’S BAR AND BISTRO CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63960 is a 30 year-old female Malaysia national who is a massage
therapist at Zenith Healing @ La Maison De Ja. She is a close contact of
Case 63846 [3], and was placed on quarantine on 28 May. She developed a
sore throat and cough on the same day, and was tested for COVID-19. Her
test result came back negative for COVID-19 infection on 28 May. She
subsequently developed a fever on 1 June and was tested for COVID-19 on
the same day. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection
on 1 June. Her serology test result is pending.

HONG YE GROUP CLEANERS CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63952 is a 52 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member of Case 63839 [4], and was placed on quarantine on 29
May. She is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for
COVID-19 on 1 June during quarantine. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test result is
pending.

Case 63953 is a 4 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at The
Spark Playhouse (406 Hougang Avenue 10). He is a family member of Case
63839, and was placed on quarantine on 29 May. He is asymptomatic and
was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 1 June during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
the same day. His serology test result is pending.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63970 is a 9 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at Fu Hua
Primary School and had last gone to school on 18 May. He developed a
fever on 31 May and sought medical attention at a GP clinic the next
day, where he underwent an ART and PCR test, and was immediately
isolated when his ART result came back positive on 1 June. On the same
day, as he had been identified as a family member of Case 63953, he was
placed on quarantine. His PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 2 June. His serology test result is pending.

MINDSVILLE@NAPIRI CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63949 is a 30 year-old female Philippines national who works as a
nursing aide at MINDSville@Napiri. She developed a runny nose, cough and
sore throat on 29 May but did not seek medical attention. As she had
been identified as a close contact of Case 63924 [5], she was placed on
quarantine on 1 June and tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 1 June. Her serology
test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence
of early infection. Case 63949 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 17  February and the second dose on 11 March.

Case 63950 is a 55 year-old female Singaporean who is a resident at
MINDSville@Napiri. She developed a runny nose on 31 May. As she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63924, she was placed on
quarantine on 1 June and tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 1 June. Her serology
test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence
of early infection. Case 63950 received her first dose of COVID-19
vaccine on 5 February and the second dose on 26 February.

Case 63961 is a 64 year-old female Singaporean who is a resident at
MINDSville@Napiri. She developed a runny nose on 1 June and was tested
for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 1 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case
63961 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5 February and the
second dose on 26 February.

Case 63962 is a 47 year-old female Singaporean who is a resident at
MINDSville@Napiri. She developed a fever on 1 June and was tested for
COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 1 June. Her serology test result is pending. Case
63962 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 5 February and the
second dose on 26 February.

All 255 staff and residents of MINDSville@Napiri have been tested for
COVID-19 since the first case (Case 63924) was confirmed on 31 May. In
total, 27 cases linked to MINDSville@Napiri have tested positive for
COVID-19 infection so far. 1 was announced on 1 June, 4 are included in
today’s case count, and another 22 cases will be included in tomorrow’s
case count following verification of the test results. MINDSville@Napiri
has stopped all admissions and discharges, and visiting has ceased from
1 June. All residents, staff and other close contacts including day care
clients, visitors and vendors, will be placed on quarantine, and will be
tested during quarantine.

NTUC FOODFARE (308 ANCHORVALE ROAD) CLUSTER

Already Quarantined:

Case 63958 is a 20 year-old female Vietnam national who works as a
kitchen assistant at NTUC Foodfare (308 Anchorvale Road). She developed
a fever on 29 May but did not seek medical attention. As she had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63854 [6], she was placed on
quarantine on 30 May. She was tested for COVID-19 infection on 1 June
during quarantine and her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection the same day. Her serology test result is pending.

CASE 63806 CLUSTER [7]

Already quarantined:

Case 63951 is a 61 year-old male Singaporean who works as a technician
at Gleneagles Hospital. He is a family member and household contact of
Cases 63876 [8] and 63955, and was placed on quarantine on 29 May. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested on 31 May during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on
1 June. His serology test result is negative.

Case 63954 is a 36 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a senior executive at ICFC Pte Ltd, and has been working from
home. She is a family member and household contact of Case 63875 [9] ,
and was placed on quarantine on 29 May. She is asymptomatic, and was
detected when she was tested for COVID-19 infection on 31 May and her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day. Her
serology test result is pending.

Case 63955 is a 61 year-old female Singaporean who is a canteen vendor
at Greenwood Primary School and had last gone to work on 18 May. She
developed a cough on 29 May but did not seek medical attention. As she
had been identified as a close contact of Case 63876, she was placed on
quarantine on 29 May. She was tested for COVID-19 infection on 31 May
during quarantine and her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection the next day. Her serology test result is negative for the N
antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case 63955
received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 14 May.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 63968 is a 39 year-old male Singaporean who works at Versaform. He
developed a fever on 31 May and a cough on 1 June, and sought medical
treatment at a GP clinic on 1 June, where he underwent both an ART and
PCR test, and was immediately isolated when his ART result came back
positive. His PCR test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 2 June.
His serology test result is pending.

CASE 63887 CLUSTER [10]

Already quarantined:

Case 63940 is a 93 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 63887, and was placed on
quarantine on 30 May. She is asymptomatic and was detected when she was
tested for COVID-19 on 31 May during quarantine. Her test result came
back positive for COVID-19 infection on 1 June. Her serology test result
is positive. Case 63940 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on
18 March, and the second dose on 9 April.

Case 63947 is a 28 year-old male Singaporean who works at Typo
(Westgate). He was tested for COVID-19 on 28 May as part of our testing
operations for those who worked in or visited JEM or Westgate and his
test result came back negative for COVID-19 infection. As he had been
identified as a family member and household contact of Cases 63920
[11] and 63928 [12] and a family member of Case 63887, he was placed on
quarantine on 30 May. He is asymptomatic and was detected when he was
tested for COVID-19 on 30 May. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 31 May. His serology test result is negative.

CASE 63941 CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 63963 is a 3 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at PCF
Sparkletots Preschool (Kreta Ayer – Kim Seng), and was last in school on
14 May. He is a family member and household contact of Cases 63941 and
63966. He developed a runny nose on 17 May and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic. He subsequently developed a cough, body aches and
headache on 28 May but did not seek medical treatment. As he had been
identified as a close contact of Case 63941, he was placed on quarantine
on 1 June and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. His test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. His serology
test result is negative.

Case 63966 is a 71 year-old female Singaporean who works as a stall
assistant at 328 Katong Laksa Tiong Bahru Plaza and was last at work on
27 May. She developed a cough, body aches and headaches on 28 May but
did not seek medical attention. As she had been identified as a close
contact of Case 63941, she was placed on quarantine on 1 June and was
tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test result came back positive
for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test result is
negative.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 63969 is a 24 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a barber
at Atatcutz Singapore (348 Bedok Road), and is a close contact of Case
63936 [13]. He developed a fever, cough and runny nose on 29 May but did
not seek medical attention. As he had been identified as a close contact
of Case 63936, he was placed on quarantine on 1 June and reported his
symptoms. He was tested for COVID-19 on the same day and his test result
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 2 June. His serology test
result is pending.
B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.
C) IMPORTED CASES: 7

Amongst the 7 imported cases,

-   2 (Cases 63944 and 63959) are Singaporeans and 4 (Cases 63945,
    63946, 63956 and 63965) are Singapore Permanent Residents who
    returned from India and the UAE.
-   1 (Case 63957) is a Long-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
    India

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.   Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.   Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.  MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Tuas South
Community Care Facility cluster for the past two incubation periods
(i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.

Community Surveillance Testing for Visitors to 455 Sengkang West Avenue

7.   MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection amongst
individuals who visited the shops at 455 Sengkang West Avenue. To
pre-emptively mitigate any potential risk of wider, undetected community
transmission, we will offer free COVID-19 testing for members of the
public who had visited the shops at 455 Sengkang West Avenue from 12 to
30 May 2021. All visitors to the shops at 455 Sengkang West Avenue from
12 to 30 May 2021 are advised to monitor their health closely for 14
days from their date of visit. They are encouraged to visit a Regional
Screening Centre or Swab and Send Home (SASH) Public Health Preparedness
Clinic for a free COVID-19 test. [14]

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.   42 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 61,523 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.



9.   There are currently 216 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 328 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 33 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
2 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This is updated from the afternoon press release as 1 case has been
re-classified following epidemiological investigations.

[2] Case 63160 is a 39 year-old male China national who is employed by
SATS Food Services Pte Ltd as a chef at Changi Prison Complex. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 13 May.

[3] Case 63846 is a 21 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
kitchen staff at Indo Bowl (39 Sultan Gate). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 28 May.

[4] Case 63839 is a 32 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker,
and is a family member and household contact of Case 63677. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 28 May.

[5] Case 63924 is a 37 year-old female Singaporean who is a resident at
MINDSville@Napiri. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 31
May.

[6] Case 63854 is a 23 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
cook at West Grill Station (Anchorvale). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 29 May.

[7] Case 63806 is a 49 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a manager at Success Consultancy Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 28 May.

[8] Case 63876 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works at Nur Insan.
He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 29 May.

[9] Case 63875 is a 41 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a consultant at ICSC Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 29 May.

[10] Case 63887 is a 65 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 30 May.

[11] Case 63920 is a 4 year-old female Singaporean who is a student at
My First Skool (332B Anchorvale Link). She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 31 May.

[12] Case 63928 is a 27 year-old female Malaysia national who is a
homemaker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 31 May.

[13] Case 63936 is a 26 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
delivery rider for Pizza Hut (Hougang Green). He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 1 June.

[14] Please refer to https//go.gov.sg/sk-testing for details of the
testing operations.
