15 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



15 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 25 Jun 2021

          As of 25 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 15 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. Of the 15 cases, 4 are linked
to previous cases and have already been placed on quarantine. 11 were
detected through surveillance, amongst whom 8 are linked to previous
cases and 3 are currently unlinked. There are 5 imported cases, who have
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival
in Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 7 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 13 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

15



4

11



12

3

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

5



5

0



1

4

TOTAL

20















2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
decreased from 104 cases in the week before to 93 cases in the past
week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from
14 cases in the week before to 18 cases in the past week. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.

3.  Amongst the 131 confirmed cases reported from 19 June to 25
June, 40 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 77 have
tested negative, and 14 serology test results are pending.



CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 15

There are 15 cases in the community today, of whom 12 are linked to
previous cases and 3 are currently unlinked.



CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64444 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who works as an equipment
specialist at Singapore General Hospital. He developed a sore throat and
cough on 23 June and sought medical treatment at his workplace on 24
June. His test result came positive for COVID-19 infection on the same
day. His serology test result is pending. Case 64444 received his first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 13 January, and his second dose on 3
February.

Case 64450 is a 31 year-old male Malaysia national who is employed by
Fourways Pte Ltd as a cleaner at National University of Singapore’s
Prince George’s Park Residence. He developed a fever on 22 June and
sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner (GP) clinic the next
day, where he underwent both an antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) test. His ART result was negative for COVID-19. His
PCR test result came positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June. His
serology test result is pending. Case 64450 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 15 January, and his second dose on 5 February.

Case 64454 is an 84 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
developed a cough on 16 June but did not seek medical attention. She was
detected when she was conveyed to Singapore General Hospital for an
unrelated medical condition on 24 June, and was tested for COVID-19. Her
test result came positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her
serology test result is pending.

115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64445 is a 2 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who is a
student at Hope Child Care Centre (3501 Jalan Bukit Merah), and was last
in school on 7 May. He is a family member and household contact of Case
64421[1], and was placed on quarantine on 23 June. He developed a fever
on 23 June and was tested for COVID-19 on the same day during
quarantine. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 on 24 June.
His serology test result is pending.

Case 64461 is an 11 year-old male Singaporean who is a student at
Alexandra Primary School and was last in school on 28 May. As he had
been identified as a close contact of Case 64435[2], he was placed on
quarantine on 23 June. He developed a fever and cough on 23 June but did
not report his symptoms. He was detected when he was tested for COVID-19
on 24 June, and his test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 25 June. His serology test result is pending.

105 HENDERSON CRESCENT CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64446 is a 70 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She is
a family member and household contact of Case 64447. She developed a
runny nose on 24 June but did not seek medical attention. She was
detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on the same day as part of our
community surveillance testing for residents of 105 Henderson Crescent.
Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June.
Her serology test result is pending. Case 64446 received her first dose
of COVID-19 vaccine on 10 June.

Case 64447 is a 40 year-old female Singaporean who works as a finance
executive at ST Engineering. She is a family member and household
contact of Case 64446. She was detected when she was tested for COVID-19
on 24 June as part of our community surveillance testing for residents
of 105 Henderson Crescent. Her test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on the same day. She developed a fever later on the
same day. Her serology test result is pending.

Case 64448 is a 45 year-old male Philippines national who works as a
maintenance specialist at Air Liquide and was last at work on 21 June.
He is asymptomatic and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on
24 June as part of our community surveillance testing for residents of
105 Henderson Crescent. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. His serology test result is pending. Case
64448 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 2 April, and the
second dose on 30 April.

Case 64455 is a 32 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a part-time delivery rider with Grab and Foodpanda, and was last at
work on 20 June. He is a family member of Case 64456. He developed a
runny nose and sore throat on 21 June, and a fever on 24 June, but did
not seek medical attention. He was detected when he was tested for
COVID-19 on 24 June as part of our community surveillance testing for
residents of 105 Henderson Crescent. He was immediately isolated when
his ART result came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. His PCR
test result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June.
His serology test result is pending. Case 64455 received his first dose
of the COVID-19 vaccine on 26 March, and the second dose on 19 April.

Case 64456 is a 32 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as an operation manager at Green Mart SG. She is a family member
of Case 64455. She developed a fever on 24 June, but did not seek
medical attention. She was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on
the same day as part of our community surveillance testing for residents
of 105 Henderson Crescent. She was immediately isolated when her ART
result came back positive for COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR test
result also came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June. Her
serology test result is pending.

Case 64457 is a 45 year-old male Singaporean who works as a manager at
Meinhardt Group and was last at work on 15 June. He developed a fever
and headache on 22 June, but did not seek medical attention. He was
detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 24 June as part of community
surveillance testing for residents of 105 Henderson Crescent. His ART
result came  back was positive for COVID-19 on 24 June and he was
immediately isolated. His PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 on 25 June. His serology test result is pending. Case 64457
received his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine on 22 June.

CHANGI GENERAL HOSPITAL CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64442 is a 67 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter at
Changi General Hospital. He is a workplace contact of Cases 64413[3] and
64443. He is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for
COVID-19 on 23 June as part of the Hospital’s surveillance testing. His
test result came positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June. His earlier
tests from Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) – the last being on 15 June –
were all negative for COVID-19 infection. His serology test result is
negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early
infection. Case 64442 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 11
June.

Case 64443 is a 72 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter at
Changi General Hospital. He is a workplace contact of Cases 64413 and
64442. He developed a runny nose on 16 June but did not seek medical
attention. He was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 23 June as
part of the Hospital’s surveillance testing. His test result came
positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June. His earlier tests from RRT –
the last being on 10 June – were all negative for COVID-19 infection.
His serology test result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests
the presence of early infection. Case 64442 received his first dose of
COVID-19 vaccine on 18 March and the second dose on 8 April.

CASE 64264 CLUSTER [4]

Already quarantined:

Case 64449 is a 30 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker. As she had been identified as a contact of Case 64264,
she was placed on phone surveillance on 16 June. On 23 June, she was
placed on quarantine as she is a household contact of Case 64420[5]. She
is asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 24
June during quarantine. Her test result came positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. Her serology test result is positive.



OTHER LINKED CASES

Already quarantined:

Case 64451 is a 31 year-old male China national who works as a driver
with MW Impex Pte Ltd. He is a workplace contact of Case 64388[6], and
was placed on quarantine on 22 June. He was tested for COVID-19 on 22
June during quarantine, and his test result was negative. He developed a
fever, cough and sore throat on 24 June, and reported his symptoms, and
was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. His test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 24 June. His serology test result is
pending.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 5

Amongst the 5 imported cases,

•  2 (Cases 64441 and 64459) are Singaporeans and 2 (Cases
64440 and 64460) are Singapore Permanent Residents who returned from
India, Indonesia and the UK.
•  1 (Case 64458) is a Work Permit holder who arrived from the
Philippines.

They have all already been placed on SHN or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN or during isolation.

4.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

Collection of ART self-test kits for residents in Bukit Merah/ Redhill
region

6.  MOH is investigating multiple cases of COVID-19 infection
amongst individuals who reside, work in or visited the Bukit Merah/
Redhill area. In order to disrupt any wider, undetected community
transmission, we have been conducting special testing operations for
these individuals, as well as deploying wastewater testing in the area.

7.  As an added layer of ringfencing to help to identify cases
and prevent further transmission, MOH is working with the People’s
Association for residents of specific blocks within the region to
collect ART kits, from 26 to 27 June 2021, at their nearest Residents’
Committee Centre. Eligible residents are strongly encouraged to collect
and perform self-testing using these ART kits. Residents should refer
to https://www.gowhere.gov.sg/art to check on their eligibility and the
nearest Residents’ Committee Centre for self-collection.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.  21 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,161 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

9.  There are currently 139 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 4 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 178 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 35 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
25 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------



[1]  Case 64421 is a 34 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is a homemaker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
[2]  Case 64435 is a 33 year-old female Singaporean who works part-time
at J&T Express Singapore. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 23 June.
[3]  Case 64413 is a 35 year-old male Singaporean who works as a porter
at Changi General Hospital. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection
on 23 June.
[4]  Case 64264 is a 32 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 June.
[5]  Case 64420 is a 78 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree.
She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 23 June.
[6]  Case 64388 is a 36 year-old male Malaysia national who works as a
driver at Omni Aquatic Supplies Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 22 June.
