13 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



13 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 21 Jun 2021

1.     As of 21 June 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 13 new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and
there are no new cases in the dormitories. Of the 13 cases, 5 are linked
to previous cases and have already been placed on quarantine. 8 were
detected through surveillance, amongst whom 5 are linked to previous
cases and 3 are currently unlinked. [1] There are 3 imported cases, who
have already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore. Amongst the new cases today, 3 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 13 were
symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

13



5

8



11

2

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

3



3

0



2

1

TOTAL

16















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 49 cases in the week before to 103 cases in the past week. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 15
cases in the week before to 20 cases in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 129 confirmed cases reported from 15 June to 21 June,
44 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 77 have tested
negative, and 8 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 13

There are 13 cases in the community today, of whom 10 are linked to
previous cases and 3 are currently unlinked.

CURRENTLY UNLINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64356 is a 33 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as a nurse at Mount Elizabeth Novena Hospital but is not involved
in direct patient care. She was last at work on 17 June. She developed a
sore throat and runny nose on 18 June and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic the next day, where she underwent both
an antigen rapid test (ART) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test.
Her ART result was negative for COVID-19. Her PCR test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 June. Her earlier tests from
Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) – the last being on 7 June – were
negative for COVID-19 infection. Her serology test result is pending.
Case 64356 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 13 January,
and the second dose on 4 February.

Case 64359 is a 38 year-old female Philippines national who is a foreign
domestic worker. She developed a fever, cough and sore throat on 18 June
and sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on 20 June, where she was
administered both an ART and PCR test. She was immediately isolated when
her ART result came back positive. Her PCR test result also came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 June. Her serology test result is
pending.

Case 64367 is a 29 year-old male Singaporean who works as a delivery
rider with Foodpanda. He developed a fever and headache on 20 June, and
sought medical treatment at a GP clinic on the same day, where he was
administered both an ART and PCR test. He was immediately isolated when
his ART result came back positive for COVID-19. His PCR test result also
came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 June. His serology test
result is pending.

115 BUKIT MERAH VIEW MARKET & FOOD CENTRE CLUSTER

Already quarantined:

Case 64355 is a 37 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a chef at Holiday Inn Atrium and a part-time delivery driver for
Lalamove Singapore. He is a family member and household contact of Cases
64231[2], 64269[3] and 64278[4], and was placed on quarantine on 14
June. He was tested for COVID-19 on 15 June during quarantine, and his
test result was negative. He subsequently developed a fever on 19 June,
and was tested on the same day. His test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 20 June. His serology test result is negative for
the N antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case
64355 received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 24 January, and his
second dose on 16 February.

Case 64357 is a 71 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree. He is a
family member and household contact of Case 64322[5], and a close
contact of Case 64231, and was placed on quarantine on 14 June. He was
tested for COVID-19 on 15 June during quarantine, and his test result
came back negative on 16 June. He subsequently developed a fever on 19
June, and reported his symptoms. He underwent both an ART and PCR test
on the same day. His test results came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 20 June. His serology test result is negative for the N
antigen, which suggests the presence of early infection. Case 64357
received his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 9 March.

Case 64358 is a 57 year-old female Singaporean who is currently
unemployed. As she had been identified as a close contact of Case
64240[6], she was placed on quarantine on 17 June. She developed a fever
on 18 June, and reported her symptom the next day. She was tested for
COVID-19 on 20 June during quarantine, and her test result came back
positive for COVID-19 infection on the same day. Her serology test
result is negative for the N antigen, which suggests the presence of
early infection. Case 64358 received her first dose of COVID-19 vaccine
on 17 June.

Case 64364 is a 23 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
stall assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu (56 Eng Hoon Street). She is
a household and workplace contact of Case 64248[7], and a workplace
contact of Cases 64270[8] and 64351[9], and was placed on quarantine on
15 June. She was tested for COVID-19 on 16 June during quarantine, and
her test result was negative. She subsequently developed a fever, cough
and sore throat on 20 June, and was tested on the same day. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 June. Her
serology test result is negative.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64368 is a 75 year-old female Singaporean who is a retiree. She
developed a runny nose on 14 June but did not seek medical attention.
She was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 20 June as part of
our community surveillance testing for residents of the Bukit Merah View
area. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21
June. Her serology test result is pending. Case 64368 received her first
dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 18 March, and the second dose on 8 April.

119 BUKIT MERAH VIEW CLUSTER

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64361 is a 63 year-old male Singaporean who is employed by CSP
Maintenance Pte Ltd as a cleaner at Enabling Village (20 Lengkok Bahru).
He is a family member and household contact of Case 64362. He is
asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for COVID-19 on 20
June as part of our community surveillance testing for residents of the
Bukit Merah View area. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. His serology test result is negative.

Case 64362 is a 62 year-old female Singaporean who is a homemaker. She
is a family member and household contact of Case 64361. She is
asymptomatic, and was detected when she was tested for COVID-19 on 20
June as part of our community surveillance testing for residents of the
Bukit Merah View area. Her test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on the same day. Her serology test result is negative.

CASE 64264 CLUSTER[10]

Already quarantined:

Case 64369 is a 28 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
sales representative at Top Employment Pte Ltd (Katong Shopping Centre).
As she had been identified as a contact of Case 64354, she was placed on
quarantine on 20 June. She was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 21 June, and
she developed a fever later that day. Her serology test result is
negative.

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64354 is a 26 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
marketing executive at Central Recruitment Solutions Pte Ltd. She
developed a fever, sore throat and runny nose on 18 June but did not
seek medical attention. As she had been identified as a contact of Case
64332[11], she was placed on phone surveillance on 19 June and reported
her symptoms. She was tested for COVID-19 on the same day. Her test
result came back positive for COVID-19 infection on 20 June. Her
serology test result is negative.

OTHER LINKED CASES

Detected through surveillance:

Case 64370 is a 47 year-old female Indonesia national who is a foreign
domestic worker, and a close contact of Case 64359. She developed a
fever, sore throat and headache on 19 June and sought medical treatment
at a GP clinic on 20 June, where she underwent both an ART and PCR test.
She was immediately isolated when her ART result came back positive for
COVID-19 on the same day. Her PCR test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection on 21 June. Her serology test result is negative.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 3

There are 3 imported cases today. All (Cases 64363, 64365 and 64366) are
Singaporeans who returned from Indonesia, the UAE and the UK,

They have already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were
tested while serving SHN.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.

6.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case
63466 cluster for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the
cluster has now been closed.

Community surveillance testing for visitors to FairPrice at 166 Bukit
Merah Central
7.     MOH is investigating cases of COVID-19 infection amongst
individuals who had visited FairPrice at 166 Bukit Merah Central. In
order to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission, we will
conduct special testing operations for all staff who have been working
at the premise.
8.      We will also extend free COVID-19 testing to members of the
public who had visited FairPrice at 166 Bukit Merah Central between 3
June and 21 June. Please refer to https://go.gov.sg/bmc-ntuc-testing for
details on the testing operations. All visitors to these premises during
the specified dates are advised to monitor their health closely, and
minimise social interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their
date of visit. They are encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they
feel unwell.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
9.     28 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 62,070 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
10.     There are currently 134 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 191 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 35 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
11.     Case 63752, a 44 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident, has
passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 20 June
2021. He was admitted to Alexandra Hospital on 25 May, and was confirmed
to have COVID-19 infection on 26 May. He had not been vaccinated against
COVID-19, and had a history of diabetes mellitus. Alexandra Hospital has
reached out to his family and is extending assistance to them.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

21 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This is updated from the afternoon press release as 2 more cases
have been linked to previous cases following epidemiological
investigations.

[2] Case 64231 is a 35 year-old male India national who works as a sales
executive at Halnaz Frozen Goods Pte Ltd. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 14 June.

[3] Case 64269 is a 32 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
works as an administrative staff at MSIG Insurance. She was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 16 June.

[4] Case 64278 is a 3 year-old female Singaporean who does not attend
any childcare facility. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 June.

[5] Case 64322 is a 45 year-old female Singapore Permanent Resident who
is an operations staff at Paxxus Pte Ltd. She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 18 June.

[6] Case 64240 is a 76 year-old male Singaporean who is a retiree, and
frequently visited 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View. He was confirmed to
have COVID-19 infection on 15 June.

[7] Case 64248 is a 45 year-old female Malaysia national who works as a
stall assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu. She was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 15 June

[8] Case 64270 is a 73 year-old female Singaporean who works as a stall
assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu. She was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on 15 June

[9] Case 64351 is a 35 year-old male Vietnam national who works as a
stall assistant at Tiong Bahru Yong Tao Hu. He was confirmed to have
COVID-19 infection on 20 June.

[10] Case 64264 is a 32 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
16 June.

[11] Case 64332 is a 30 year-old female Indonesia national who is a
foreign domestic worker. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on
19 June.
