Community Surveillance Testing At 3 Teck Whye Avenue and 357 Yung An
Road



COMMUNITY SURVEILLANCE TESTING AT 3 TECK WHYE AVENUE AND 357 YUNG AN ROAD


Published Date: 29 Jul 2021

       The Ministry of Health (MOH) is investigating likely COVID-19
transmission at 3 Teck Whye Avenue and 357 Yung An Road. So far, seven
cases of COVID-19 infection have been detected in four households at 3
Teck Whye Avenue. Separately, four cases of COVID-19 infection have been
detected in three households at 357 Yung An Road. Epidemiological
investigations are ongoing to determine linkages and the source of
transmission.



2.        In order to uncover community infection cases, MOH will
conduct mandatory COVID-19 testing for all residents of 3 Teck Whye
Avenue and 357 Yung An Road. Testing is optional for those who have
tested negative for COVID-19 infection from 25 July onwards. Mandatory
testing will be conducted on 30 July 2021 between 9am and 4pm at the
void deck of 1 Teck Whye Avenue, and the pavilion between 357 and 359
Yung An Road, respectively.



3.    All residents are to bring along their NRIC for identification
purposes. Leaflets have been distributed and SMS notifications have been
sent to the residents to provide them with more information. Residents
are reminded to keep to their appointment time. Residents are also
advised to monitor their health closely and consult a doctor immediately
if they feel unwell. Those who are still awaiting their test results are
advised to minimise social interactions as much as possible. They should
continue to monitor their health and seek immediate medical attention if
they feel unwell.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH
29 JULY 2021


