Update On Local Covid-19 Situation (12 Nov 2021)



UPDATE ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION (12 NOV 2021)


Published Date: 12 Nov 2021



+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SUMMARY OF LOCAL SITUATION                                            |
|                                                                       |
| -   1,616 cases remain warded in hospital. 259 cases require oxygen   |
|     supplementation in the general ward, 52 are unstable and under    |
|     close monitoring in the intensive care unit (ICU), and 75 are     |
|     critically ill and intubated in the ICU. The current overall ICU  |
|     utilisation rate is 67.0%.                                        |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the last 28 days, of the 91,231 infected individuals, 98.7%  |
|     had no or mild symptoms, 0.8% required oxygen supplementation in  |
|     the general ward, 0.3% were in the ICU, and 0.2% has died.        |
|                                                                       |
| -   As of 11 November 2021, 85% of our population has completed their |
|     full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, 86% has    |
|     received at least one dose, and 19% has received boosters.        |
|                                                                       |
| -   Over the past day, 2,979 cases were discharged, of whom 456 are   |
|     seniors aged 60 years and above. 3,099 new cases of COVID-19      |
|     infection were detected, with 2,965 in the community, 128 in the  |
|     migrant worker dormitories and 6 imported cases. The weekly       |
|     infection growth rate is 1.04.                                    |
|                                                                       |
| -   The week-on-week ratio has increased due to the relatively low    |
|     number of cases during the Deepavali public holiday last week.    |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Note: Hospitalisation numbers have been updated on 13 November.


SITUATION AT HOSPITALS

1.     As of 12 November 2021, 259 cases require oxygen supplementation
in the general ward, 52 are unstable and under close monitoring in the
ICU to prevent further deterioration, and 75 are critically ill and
intubated in the ICU. The current overall ICU utilisation rate is 67.0%.

FIGURE 1: Daily Adult ICU Bed Utilisation

[FIG1_12 NOV]STATUS OF PATIENTS

2.     Over the last 28 days, 98.7% of local infected cases were
asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, 0.8% required oxygen supplementation
in the general ward, 0.2% were unstable and under close monitoring in
the ICU to prevent further deterioration, and 0.1% had been critically
ill and intubated in the ICU.

FIGURE 2: Local Cases in the Last 28 Days by Severity of Condition[1]

[211112 Figure 2]



3.     Seniors 60 years old and above, especially if unvaccinated,
continue to be more adversely affected by COVID-19:

FIGURE 3: Patients Needing Oxygen Supplementation, ICU Care or Died[2],
by Age Groups

[FIG3_12 NOV]VACCINATION

4.     As of 11 November 2021, 85% of our population has completed their
full regimen/ received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines, 86% has received
at least one dose, and 19% has received their booster shots.

5.     Over the past 7 days, the number of fully vaccinated and
non-fully vaccinated cases who are critically ill in the ICU are at 0.5
and 5.4 per 100,000 population respectively. Over the same period, the
number of fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated cases who died are
0.1 and 0.9 per 100,000 population respectively. Among seniors aged 60
and above, the number of fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated cases
who are critically ill in the ICU are 1.8 and 47.6 respectively. The
number of fully vaccinated and non-fully vaccinated seniors who died are
0.4 and 9.3 respectively.

FIGURE 4: 7-Day Moving Average of Number of Deaths and Active Cases in
ICU, per 100,000 Population by Vaccination Status [3]

[211112 FIGURE 4]

INFLOW AND OUTFLOW OF CASES

6.     Over the past day, 2,979 cases were discharged, of whom 456 are
seniors aged 60 years and above.

7.     As of 12 November 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health has detected
a total of 3,099 new cases of COVID-19 infection, comprising 2,965
community cases, 128 dormitory resident cases and 6 imported cases.
Amongst the community cases today are 479 seniors who are aged 60 years
and above. The ratio of community cases for the past week over the week
before has increased to 1.04 due to the relatively low number of cases
during the Deepavali public holiday last week.

8.     14 more cases, aged between 35 and 102 years, have passed away
from complications due to COVID-19 infection. All of them, except for an
unvaccinated case, had various underlying medical conditions. The 35
year-old individual had not been vaccinated against COVID-19, and had
multiple comorbidities.

FIGURE 5: Number of Community Cases by Age

[211112 Figure 5]

FIGURE 6: Week-on-week Infection Ratio [4]

[211112 Figure 6]

9.     We are closely monitoring the clusters listed below, which have
already been ringfenced through tracing, testing and isolation.

FIGURE 7: Large Clusters with New Cases

CLUSTER

NEW CASES

TOTAL[5]

REMARKS

Safari House Preschool (Toa Payoh)

2

11

Transmission amongst staff and students. Of the 11 cases, 2 are staff
and 9 are students.

Institute of Mental Health

1

412

Transmission amongst staff and patients. Of the 412 cases, 27 are staff
and 385 are patients.

NTUC Health Nursing Home (Geylang East)

3

23

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 23 cases, 1 is a staff
and 22 are residents.

Surya Home

3

23

Transmission amongst staff and residents. Of the 23 cases, 3 are staff
and 20 are residents.

10.     Please refer to MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

12 NOVEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes only new cases reported in the past 28 days. Based on
cases’ worst-ever condition; deceased cases previously in ICU are
counted under ‘Deceased’ and not under ‘Ever Critically ill and
Intubated in ICU’.

[2] May differ from the deaths reported for the day as the latter
includes those who have passed on earlier, but whose cause of death was
investigated and confirmed only later, e.g. Coroner’s cases.

[3] Non-fully vaccinated comprises persons who are partially vaccinated
and completely unvaccinated.

[4] Ratio of community cases in the past week over the week before.

[5] Includes new cases added today.
