No New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



NO NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 16 Feb 2021

1.     As of 16 February 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are no new cases of locally
transmitted COVID-19 infection. There is 1 imported case, who had
already been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in
Singapore.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0



0

0



0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

1



1

0



0

1

TOTAL

1















2.     Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 4 cases in the week before to 5 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has decreased from 4 cases in the
week before to 2 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

3.     Amongst the 78 confirmed cases reported from 10 February to 16
February, 45 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 20
have tested negative, and 13 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no cases in the community today.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 1

There is 1 imported case today. Case 60264 is a Work Permit holder who
arrived from Indonesia and is a foreign domestic worker. She had already
been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore on 2 February and was
tested while serving SHN.

Her serology test has come back positive, indicating a likely past
infection. However as she did not undergo a serology test upon arrival
in Singapore, we are not able to definitively conclude that she was no
longer infectious when she arrived in Singapore. As a precautionary
measure, we will take all the necessary public health actions.

4.     Please refer to the Annexes and MOHâ€™s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.

5.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Case 59280
cluster for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster
has now been closed.

6.     From 5 February, newly arrived Work Permit and S Pass holders in
the Construction, Marine and Process sectors, foreign domestic workers
and confinement nannies, who have recent travel history to higher-risk
countries/ regions, are progressively required to undergo mandatory
on-arrival polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and serology tests. These
have enabled us to quickly identify persons who have recovered from an
old COVID-19 infection, and are no longer infective to others by the
time they arrived in Singapore, and to exclude them from our daily case
count.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.     20 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 59,661 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

8.     There are currently 30 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 90 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
