Groups Eligible for Second Booster and Dosing Interval for Covid-19
Primary Vaccination Series



GROUPS ELIGIBLE FOR SECOND BOOSTER AND DOSING INTERVAL FOR COVID-19 PRIMARY VACCINATION SERIES


Published Date: 10 Jun 2022

1.  The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has made the
following updates to the vaccination recommendations:

a.   All persons aged 50 years and older may now be offered the second
booster;

b.  Persons aged 18 years and above who are medically vulnerable to
severe COVID-19 are no longer require a doctor’s referral to receive the
second booster; and

c.  The recommended interval between the first two doses of a primary
vaccination series will now be extended to eight weeks, but the minimum
allowable interval remains unchanged especially for persons who need to
achieve protection more quickly due to their risk of exposure or
susceptibility to severe disease.



UPDATES ON COVID-19 SECOND BOOSTER VACCINATION

2. The EC19V had previously recommended for the following groups of
persons to receive a second COVID-19 booster around five months after
their first booster:

a.  All persons aged 80 years and above;

b.  Persons living in aged care facilities; and

c.  Medically vulnerable persons at higher risk of severe COVID-19.

3.  These groups are most at risk of severe disease. Vaccine protection
against severe disease from three doses is also lower in persons aged 80
years and older, and a second booster is important to achieve a high
level of protection. As such, the EC19V strongly urges persons in these
recommended groups to receive the second booster vaccination as soon as
they are eligible.

4.  Data has shown that the risk of severe COVID-19 can increase in
persons aged 50 years and older. As such, THE SECOND BOOSTER CAN NOW BE
OFFERED TO ALL PERSONS AGED 50 YEARS AND OLDER TO FURTHER INCREASE THEIR
PROTECTION. This is an update from the previous position of the second
booster being offered to all persons aged 60 years and older. All
persons aged 80 years and older are strongly recommended to get their
second booster, as previously recommended. The second booster should be
given around five months after the first booster.

5.  To facilitate uptake of the second booster, EC19V further recommends
that PERSONS AGED 18 YEARS AND OLDER, WHO HAVE HEALTH CONDITIONS THAT
MAKE THEM MEDICALLY VULNERABLE TO SEVERE COVID-19, CAN RECEIVE THE
SECOND BOOSTER WITHOUT THE NEED FOR A PHYSICIAN’S REFERRAL. They can
self-declare their health condition to be eligible for the second
booster (please refer to the Annex for the list of health conditions).
This is an update from the previous arrangement where such persons were
required to provide a doctor’s referral to receive the second booster.
The list of health conditions in the Annex covers medical conditions of
concern, but is not exhaustive. Persons with medical conditions not
listed in the Annex, or who are not sure if they are included in the
listed groups should consult their doctor.  They may then proceed to
receive the second booster based on their doctor’s advice if the doctor
provides an appropriate referral.

_ _

EXTENDING THE RECOMMENDED PRIMARY VACCINATION SERIES DOSING INTERVAL

6. The recommended dosing intervals between the first two doses of a
COVID-19 primary vaccination series had been set at 21 to 28 days
depending on the vaccine used. This was based on the vaccination
protocols used in their respective vaccine trials, and also due to a
need to expedite protection against COVID-19 for a vaccine-naive
population during the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic.

7.  There is now more evidence that an extended interval between the
first two doses of the primary vaccination series may confer better
immune response and vaccine effectiveness. EC19V is thus now
recommending for the dosing interval to be extended to eight weeks
between the first two doses of the primary vaccination series for all
COVID-19 vaccines[1] available under the National Vaccination Programme,
for those who have yet to be vaccinated with their primary vaccination
series.

8. Individuals, particularly those who are at risk of exposure to
COVID-19 or more susceptible to severe disease, may still receive the
doses earlier than the eight-week interval but not less than the
previously established minimum intervals[2].

9. All eligible individuals are strongly encouraged to complete the
COVID-19 primary vaccination series and booster vaccinations recommended
for them, if they have not done so already.



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

10 JUNE 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Vaccines available under the National Vaccination Programme are:
Pfizer-BionTech/Comirnaty, Moderna/Spikevax, Novavax/Nuvaxovid and
Sinovac-Coronavac.

[2]The minimum intervals that the first two doses of the vaccines should
be taken are: 21 days for Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty and
Novavax/Nuvaxovid, 28 days for Moderna/Spikevax and Sinovac-CoronaVac.
