More Than 25,000 Nurses to Receive 2022 Nurse Special Payment Package



MORE THAN 25,000 NURSES TO RECEIVE 2022 NURSE SPECIAL PAYMENT PACKAGE


Published Date: 31 Jul 2022

1.     To recognise the hard work and contributions of our nurses, more
than 25,000 nurses serving in the public healthcare clusters will
receive the 2022 Nurse Special Payment (NSP) Package, of between 1.7 and
2.1 months of their base salary.



2.     Nurses serving in the public healthcare clusters – National
Healthcare Group, National University Health System, and SingHealth –
will be eligible for the package as their retention payment. The package
will also be extended to another 2,600 nurses working in publicly-funded
community care organisations.



3.     As we celebrate Nurses’ Day on 1 August, it is timely to show our
deep appreciation to our nurses who continue to work tirelessly to
support the entire healthcare system. The 2022 NSP Package will be
calculated based on their base salary as at 1 December 2022. This
comprises:



(i)     the regular NSP of 0.5 months, which will be paid out in
December 2022; and



(ii)     the enhanced NSP of between 1.2 and 1.6 months, which will be
split equally into two tranches to be paid out in March 2023 and
September 2023 to nurses who remain in continuous service with their
employing organisation, i.e. our public healthcare institutions and
publicly-funded community care organisations.



4.     As our population ages, the demand for healthcare services and
manpower will continue to increase. The Ministry of Health is committed
to building up a local core of nursing workforce to meet our future
needs by improving the attractiveness of the nursing profession, and
growing the local nursing training pipelines for both fresh graduates
and mid-career entrants. To ensure that we continue to attract and
retain staff and maintain market competitiveness, the base salaries of
nurses in the public healthcare sector were enhanced by between 5% and
14%. The first phase of this increase took place in July 2021, and the
second phase took place in July 2022.



5.     The public healthcare clusters will share the details of the NSP
with their nursing staff in the public healthcare institutions. The
Agency for Integrated Care will follow-up with the publicly-funded
community care organisations on the funding details for their sector.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

31 JULY 2022
