Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Recommends Covid-19 Vaccination
for Children Aged 6 Months and Above, and Recommends the
Moderna/spikevax Bivalent Original/omicron Covid-19 Vaccine for Ages 18
Years and Above



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS COVID-19 VACCINATION FOR CHILDREN AGED 6 MONTHS AND ABOVE, AND RECOMMENDS THE MODERNA/SPIKEVAX BIVALENT ORIGINAL/OMICRON COVID-19 VACCINE FOR AGES 18 YEARS AND ABOVE


Published Date: 07 Oct 2022

1. The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) is updating its
recommendations to:
a. Recommend the Moderna/Spikevax COVID-19 vaccine for the primary
vaccination series, for children aged 6 months to 5 years.
b. Recommend the Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax COVID-19 vaccine for the
primary vaccination series and for booster vaccination, for persons aged
18 years and above.

c. Offer the Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine to all persons who had
completed their booster vaccination, including persons who had earlier
been recommended and had received the second booster from around 5
months after their last booster dose.

COVID-19 VACCINATION FOR CHILDREN AGED 6 MONTHS AND ABOVE

2. The Health Sciences Authority has authorised the Moderna/Spikevax
vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 5 years under the Pandemic
Special Access Route. After studying the data, the Expert Committee on
COVID-19 Vaccination recommends the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for the
primary vaccination of children aged 6 months to 5 years. All children
aged 6 months and above should now be vaccinated as soon as the vaccine
becomes available to them.

3. While the risk of severe COVID-19 in young children is generally low,
they have had a higher risk of hospitalisation compared to older
children who have been able to get vaccinated. Severe disease can still
occur in young children, including pneumonia MIS-C (Multisystem
Inflammatory Syndrome in Children), and even death. Vaccination is
important to reduce risk of severe disease and death in young children.

4.Children aged 6 months to 5 years are thus recommended to receive two
25-microgram doses of the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine, given 8 weeks apart.
This dosage is a quarter of that used in the primary vaccination series
for adults.

5. Studies have shown that two doses of the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine in
children aged 6 months to 5 years result in antibody levels comparable
to that achieved in young adults vaccinated with the adult dosage.This
immune response is expected to provide a high level of protection
against severe disease and a moderate level of protection against
infection. Vaccine efficacy against symptomatic infection with the
Omicron variant was 36.8% (ages 2-5 years) and 50.6% (ages 6-23 months),
which is similar to that observed in adults vaccinated with the adult
dosage of the same vaccine. Local data in ages 5-11 years has also shown
that primary vaccination reduces hospitalisation due to the Omicron
variant by more than 80% - this high level of protection against severe
COVID-19 is also expected in the younger age groups.

6. Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 5 years with the Moderna/
Spikevax vaccine is safe. The common side effects (such as fever,
injection site pain and swelling) were observed less commonly than in
adults, and are similar with side effects for other childhood vaccines.
Serious adverse events were rare, with no cases of anaphylaxis or
pericarditis/myocarditis observed in the clinical trial. The risks of
pericarditis/myocarditis are expected to be very low in this age group.

7. Primary vaccination for COVID-19 has already been recommended for
children aged under 5 years in several other countries, including
Australia, Canada, Israel, and the United States of America (US). To
date, over 1 million children aged under 5 years have received at least
one dose of COVID-19 vaccines in the US as recommended by the US Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.

8. The Expert Committee encourages parents to vaccinate their children
as soon as the COVID-19 vaccine is made available for them.

BIVALENT MODERNA/SPIKEVAX COVID-19 VACCINE FOR AGES 18 YEARS AND ABOVE

9. HSA has also authorised the Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax COVID-19
vaccine for use in persons aged 18 years and above under the Pandemic
Special Access Route. This updated vaccine contains the spike protein
from both the original and Omicron variants of the virus. After studying
the data, the committee recommends a switch to the Bivalent
Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for all booster vaccinations in those aged 18
years and above. This updated vaccine is preferred over the original
COVID-19 vaccines, and as such the primary vaccination series for those
yet to be vaccinated should also be switched to the new bivalent vaccine
where possible.

10. This updated vaccine is expected to result in high protection
against severe disease across variants and may confer better protection
against future variants than the original vaccine. Persons who had
completed their booster vaccination, including persons who had earlier
been recommended and had received their second booster with the original
vaccine, may be better protected through the bivalent vaccine, and
should be offered a booster dose of this updated vaccine around 5 months
after their last booster dose if they choose to do so when this updated
vaccine is available for them.

_Vaccine Protection and Safety_

11._ _In human clinical trials, the updated vaccine generated a stronger
immune response against the Omicron BA.1 variant compared to the
original Moderna vaccine, while enhancing the immune response against
the original strain too. In addition, it resulted in substantial
antibody responses against the Omicron BA.4/5 variant and other
previously circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants (e.g. Alpha, Beta, Delta,
Gamma). The updated vaccine is expected to result in high protection
against severe disease across these variants and may confer better
protection against future variants than the original vaccine by
broadening the bodyâ€™s immune response.

12. The safety profile of the updated vaccine was consistent with that
of the original Moderna/Spikevax vaccine. The adverse events were mostly
mild-to-moderate and self-resolved within days.

_Use of Updated Vaccine for Primary Series Vaccination and Booster
Vaccination_

13. Given broader protection conferred by the updated Bivalent
Moderna/Spikevax b vaccine and a similar safety profile, the EC19V
recommends the use of the Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax for the primary
vaccination series (50-microgram dose) and for booster vaccination
(50-microgram dose) instead of the original Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for
ages 18 years and above.

14. Other vaccines available locally under the National Vaccination
Programme, such as the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty and Novavax/Nuvaxovid
vaccines, target the original SARS-CoV-2 virus. The updated
Moderna/Spikevax vaccine is preferentially recommended over them, but
the Pfizer-BioNTech and Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccines will continue to be
made available for the time being for those who prefer it.

15. The Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine is not available for persons
under 18 years as it has not been trialed in this age group. Persons
under 18 years should proceed with their primary vaccination series
and/or booster vaccination with the original COVID-19 vaccines available
as soon as they are offered, as timely vaccination protection with these
original vaccines is still better than no protection.

16. The EC19V will continue to assess the suitability of bivalent or
variant-adjusted vaccines for persons aged under 18 years, and as and
when necessary, make the appropriate recommendations on their use.

_Additional Booster Dose with Updated Vaccine for Ages 18 Years and
Above_

17. As the Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine will broaden protection
against prevailing variants and potentially future ones, the EC19V
recommends that it be offered to all persons 18 years and above, even
those who had already completed their booster vaccinations previously,
_as an additional booster dose_. This would include persons who had
already received the second booster. However, persons who are more
vulnerable to severe disease, such as persons in the older age groups,
should still be prioritised to receive the bivalent vaccine.

18. Based on local data, vaccine effectiveness against severe disease
from the first booster has been sustained for at least one year thus
far, particularly in those 59 years and under. Persons interested in
taking the updated vaccine as an additional booster dose should thus do
so at around five months to one year after their last booster dose. This
period will be subjected to review as further data emerges or if the
COVID-19 situation changes.

SINOVAC-CORONAVAC AS A BOOSTER DOSE

18. Previously, Sinovac-CoronaVac was offered for booster vaccinations
only for persons who were medically ineligible to receive the mRNA and
Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccines. Moving forward, individuals yet to be
boosted should be offered the Sinovac-CoronaVac as a booster dose, even
if they do not meet criteria for being medically ineligible for other
vaccines. This is to ensure that they at least get a minimal level of
booster protection.

19. Nevertheless, the Expert Committee will still recommend such
individuals to preferentially consider receiving the Moderna/Spikevax,
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty or Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccines for their
booster vaccination, because these confer better protection than
Sinovac-CoronaVac.

RECOMMENDATIONS WILL CONTINUE TO BE REVIEWED AS UPDATED VACCINES BECOME
AVAILABLE

20. Vaccines updated with SARS-CoV-2 variants will broaden protection
against existing variants and potentially against future ones. More such
vaccines will become available progressively. The EC19V will continue to
monitor the development of updated COVID-19 vaccines and update the
national recommendations as they become available, so as to achieve safe
and effective vaccination protection for the population.



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

7 OCTOBER 2022
