Cpf Interest Rates From 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2023 and Basic
Healthcare Sum for 2023



CPF INTEREST RATES FROM 1 JANUARY 2023 TO 31 MARCH 2023 AND BASIC HEALTHCARE SUM FOR 2023


Published Date: 29 Nov 2022

       Despite the recent rise in interest rates, the pegged Ordinary
Account (OA) and Special and MediSave Account (SMA) interest rates
remain below the OA and SMA floor rates of 2.5% and 4% respectively.
Therefore, CPF members below 55 years old will continue to earn interest
rates of up to 3.5% per annum on their OA monies, and up to 5% per annum
on their SMA monies in the first quarter in 2023. These interest rates
include an extra 1% interest paid on the first $60,000 of members’
combined balances (capped at $20,000 for OA).

For members aged 55 and above, the Government pays an extra 2% interest
on the first $30,000 of their combined balances (capped at $20,000 for
OA), and an extra 1% on the next $30,000. This means that members aged
55 and above will earn up to 6% interest per annum on their retirement
balances.

2.     The extra interest paid to CPF members is part of the
Government’s efforts to enhance the retirement savings of CPF members.
The extra interest received on the OA will go into the member’s Special
Account (SA) or Retirement Account (RA). If a member is above 55 years
old and participates in the CPF LIFE scheme, the extra interest will
still be earned on his or her combined balances, which includes the
savings used for CPF LIFE.

3.     The Government is watching the interest rate environment closely
to ensure that the CPF interest rate pegs remain relevant in the
prevailing operating environment while taking into consideration the
longer-term outlook.

INTEREST RATE FOR CPF ORDINARY ACCOUNT AND HDB CONCESSIONARY INTEREST
RATE

4.     The OA interest rate will be maintained at 2.5% per annum from 1
January 2023 to 31 March 2023.

5.     Correspondingly, the concessionary interest rate for HDB housing
loans, which is pegged at 0.1% above the OA interest rate, will remain
unchanged at 2.6% per annum from 1 January 2023 to 31 March 2023.

INTEREST RATE FOR SPECIAL AND MEDISAVE ACCOUNT

6.     The SMA interest rate will be maintained at 4% per annum from 1
January 2023 to 31 March 2023.

INTEREST RATE FOR RETIREMENT ACCOUNT

7.     The RA interest rate will be maintained at 4% per annum from 1
January 2023 to 31 December 2023.

BASIC HEALTHCARE SUM FOR 2023

8.     The Basic Healthcare Sum (BHS) is the estimated savings required
for basic subsidised healthcare needs in old age. The BHS is adjusted
yearly for members below age 65 to keep pace with the growth in MediSave
use. Once members reach age 65, their BHS will be fixed for the rest of
their lives.

From 1 January 2023,
     1.  For members below 65 years old, their BHS will be raised
from $66,000 to $68,500.

     2.  For members who turn 65 years old in 2023, their BHS will
be fixed at $68,500 and will not change thereafter.

9.     For members aged 66 years and above in 2023, their cohort BHS has
already been fixed and will remain unchanged.
10.     The BHS is the cap applied to the MediSave Account (MA).
MediSave contributions in excess of a member’s BHS will be automatically
transferred to his or her other CPF accounts.

11.     CPF members who have less than the BHS are not required to top
up their MA and will still be able to withdraw from their MA to pay for
approved medical expenses.

12.     For more information on the BHS for the respective cohorts,
please visit CPF.GOV.SG/BHS.

PUBLIC ENQUIRIES

13.     For more information on CPF interest rates and their
computation, please visit CPF INTEREST RATES.

14.     CPF members can visit cpf.gov.sg or contact CPF Board through
CPF.GOV.SG/WRITETOUS for enquiries.

MEDIA ENQUIRIES

15.     For clarification on this news release, please contact:

CPF Board  :  Ms Adeline Leu
                                         Media & Publicity Department
                                         Tel: 6202 2389
                                         Email: adeline_leu@cpf.gov.sg

HDB  :  Ms Sherlyn Yap
                                         Corporate Communications Group
                                         Tel: 6490 1263
                                         Email: sherlyn_yap@hdb.gov.sg

MOH  :  Ms Rakinah Mohamed Ali
                                        Corporate Communications
Division
                                        Tel: 6991 7730
                                        Email:
rakinah_mohamed_ali@moh.gov.sg
