Singapore’s Contribution to the Financial Intermediary Fund for Pandemic
Prevention, Preparedness and Response Hosted by the World Bank



SINGAPORE’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY FUND FOR PANDEMIC PREVENTION, PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE HOSTED BY THE WORLD BANK


Published Date: 21 Jun 2022

    The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant impact on lives and
livelihoods worldwide. We have to play our part to overcome the current
pandemic and better prepare for the next one. This will help avoid a
repeat of the catastrophic economic, social and human costs of COVID-19.
2. In line with the recommendations by the G20 High Level Independent
Panel¹, the G20 Joint Finance and Health Ministers Meeting has endorsed
a proposal to establish a financial intermediary fund (FIF)² for
pandemic prevention, preparedness and response (PPR), hosted by the
World Bank. The FIF aims to fill critical financing PPR gaps and promote
a more coordinated approach to PPR investments. It will value-add to
existing work to catalyse domestic investments in low- and
lower-middle-income countries, as well as build pandemic PPR capacities
at the regional and global levels. The European Commission, Germany,
Indonesia, and the United States have pledged contributions to the FIF.
3. Singapore supports multilateral initiatives to strengthen our global
health security. We have contributed to the COVID-19 Vaccine Global
Access (COVAX) Advance Market Commitment (AMC) mechanism³, as well as to
the World Health Organization and other international health agencies
for responses to COVID-19. In addition, Singapore will contribute
US$10,000,000 to the FIF to support this multilateral endeavour.
4. Singapore will continue to work closely with the Indonesia G20
Presidency and our international partners to strengthen our collective
resilience against future pandemics.
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 JUNE 2022

[1] The G20 High Level Independent Panel on Financing the Global Commons
for Pandemic Preparedness and Response was established by the Italian
G20 Presidency in 2021. It was co-chaired by Tharman Shanmugaratnam,
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and Lawrence Summers. Refer to Annex A.

[2] A Financial Intermediary Fund (FIF) is a trust fund administered by
World Bank to leverage public and private resources to provide global
public goods like preventing communicable diseases, responding to
climate change and providing food security. The World Bank provides
tailored operational, legal and financial services to manage the Fund.
Other examples of FIFs hosted by the World Bank include the Green
Climate Fund; the Global Environment Facility; and the Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. See more information on FIFs at
the World Bank here.

[3] COVAX AMC supports 92 low- and lower-middle income countries’ access
to donor-funded COVID-19 vaccines.
