About 31,500 Eligible Individuals Have Yet to Make Their Appointments
for Their Booster Dose



ABOUT 31,500 ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS HAVE YET TO MAKE THEIR APPOINTMENTS FOR THEIR BOOSTER DOSE


Published Date: 08 Feb 2022

     As of 7 February 2022, about 31,500 eligible individuals aged 18
years and above who have taken the last dose of their primary series
more than 270 days ago have yet to make their booster dose appointments.
As announced previously, from 14 FEBRUARY 2022, these individuals will
no longer be considered as fully vaccinated, and their vaccination
status will revert to ‘additional dose needed’.

2   This will also apply to individuals who received recognised non-mRNA
primary vaccination regimens offered under the National Vaccination
Programme, such as three doses of the Sinovac-CoronaVac or Sinopharm
vaccines, as well as regimens of other World Health Organization
Emergency Use Listing vaccines.

3       The Ministry of Health has been progressively sending out SMS
notifications to remind these individuals. We strongly urge these
individuals to make their appointments or walk in to any of the
vaccination centres for their booster dose as soon as possible. Walk-ins
to vaccination centres are available from MONDAYS TO THURSDAYS BEFORE
7.00PM. The list of vaccination centres can be found at
www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations-vcs.

4       Those who are medically ineligible for mRNA vaccines may
consider taking the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine as a booster vaccine. The
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine is otherwise not recommended as a booster
vaccine.

5       Individuals who are unsure whether they require a booster
vaccine can visit https://go.gov.sg/vax-status-query to access the
online calculator to check if they would be required to receive a
booster shot.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

8 FEBRUARY 2022
