Termination of Chas Participation and Revocation of Medisave
Accreditation of the Cliniq; Revocation of Medisave Accreditation of Dr
Muhammad Iqbal and Myclnq Medical



TERMINATION OF CHAS PARTICIPATION AND REVOCATION OF MEDISAVE ACCREDITATION OF THE CLINIQ; REVOCATION OF MEDISAVE ACCREDITATION OF DR MUHAMMAD IQBAL AND MYCLNQ MEDICAL


Published Date: 14 Jul 2022

1.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) has, on 14 July 2022, served the
following notices, which will take effect from 29 July 2022:

     a)     Notice of termination of Community Health Assist Scheme
(CHAS) participation and notice of revocation of MediSave accreditation
of The Cliniq (590A Montreal Drive #01-23);

     b)     Notice of revocation of MediSave accreditation of MYCLNQ
Medical (554 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 10 #01-2048); and

     c)     Notice of revocation of the MediSave accreditation of Dr
Muhammad Iqbal Bin Abdullah.

2.     Audits by MOH on the CHAS claims made by The Cliniq have revealed
severe non-compliances, such as claims for patient visits with no
relevant supporting documentation. These claims were submitted by Dr
Iqbal, who is also the clinic owner. As The Cliniq and Dr Iqbal are in
breach of the terms and conditions of CHAS, MOH has revoked the MediSave
accreditation of The Cliniq and Dr Iqbal. As Dr Iqbal is the clinic
manager of MYCLNQ Medical, MOH has also revoked the MediSave
accreditation of MYCLNQ Medical pursuant to the Terms and Conditions of
Approval under the MediSave Scheme and MediShield Life Scheme. Given the
severity of the alleged offences, MOH has also referred the case to the
Police for further investigation.

3.     With the revocation, Dr Iqbal will not be able to make MediSave
claims on behalf of his patients for treatments and surgical procedures.
Once terminated from CHAS participation and revoked of MediSave
accreditation, The Cliniq cannot make claims on behalf of patients for
either scheme. MYCLNQ Medical cannot make claims on behalf of patients
for MediSave claims. Affected patients may wish to visit other nearby
CHAS-accredited or MediSave-accredited clinics instead.

4.     MOH closely monitors clinicsâ€™ CHAS and MediSave claims, and the
majority of clinics and practitioners comply with our guidelines. MOH
takes a serious view of fraudulent claims, and will not hesitate to take
action where non-compliance is uncovered. We also remind healthcare
professionals to uphold a high standard of professionalism, and adhere
to their Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines.

5.     We encourage patients to actively engage their doctors and
dentists if they have any queries on their treatment, or the charges
imposed on their claims. Members of public who come across any
suspicious or unusual CHAS/MediSave claims made on their behalf (such as
claims made on dates which they did not visit the clinic or items
indicated in the invoice which were not prescribed/performed at the
visit) can contact MOH (1800-255-4122) or send their feedback to
MOH_QSM@moh.gov.sg.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

14 JULY 2022
