Extension of Tuberculosis Screening and On-site Chest X-ray Screening
for Persons Living Or Working At 2 Jalan Bukit Merah



EXTENSION OF TUBERCULOSIS SCREENING AND ON-SITE CHEST X-RAY SCREENING FOR PERSONS LIVING OR WORKING AT 2 JALAN BUKIT MERAH


Published Date: 24 Jun 2022

        The Ministry of Health (MOH) will extend Tuberculosis (TB) and
chest X-ray screening for current and former residents of 2 Jalan Bukit
Merah, as well as stallholders, shop owners and their employees at that
location, to 24 and 25 June 2022. This follows an earlier round of
voluntary TB screening for these residents and workers from 27 to 31 May
2022. On-site chest X-ray will also be conducted for selected residents
who require further testing.
2.     As of 23 June 2022, a total of 574 out of 749 persons in the
block have attended the TB screening. Of these 574 people screened,
about 30% have tested positive for TB through blood test. Further tests
are required to determine if these persons have TB infection or active
TB disease. Those with active TB disease will be treated while those
with latent TB infection will be given appointments for follow-up at the
TB Control Unit and offered treatment if suitable.
3.     We have also detected one more case that is genetically linked by
Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) to the cluster. Contact investigations for
the new case are ongoing.
4.     The extended screening exercise and further tests will be
conducted free of charge. All persons living or working at the block who
have not been screened for TB are required to participate in the
extended screening exercise. The screening is mandatory under the
Infectious Diseases Act (IDA). Persons who have been recalled for
further tests will also be required to complete these tests. Staff from
the National Centre for Infectious Diseases have conducted visits to
non-respondent units to engage and urge residents who had not been
screened earlier to undergo screening. Screening is not necessary for
individuals who had occasionally visited the block or vicinity as the
risk of transmission to persons who are transient contacts of a TB case
is low.
5.     The screening station will be located at the Queenstown Hock San
Zone Residentsâ€™ Committee (RC) Centre at Block 3 Jalan Bukit Merah.
Residents who are unavailable to attend the screening on these two days
can get tested at the designated SATA Clinic (Potong Pasir Medical
Centre) before 5 August 2022.
HEALTH ADVISORY
6.     The symptoms of TB disease include persistent cough that lasts 3
weeks or longer, low-grade fever, night sweats, fatigue, weight loss and
chest pain. TB is typically spread through close and prolonged contact
with an infectious individual, and not by contact with items or surfaces
touched by a person with TB. Therefore, persons who are contacted and
screened following the detection of a TB individual typically comprise
family members, close workplace colleagues and acquaintances from common
social activities with close and regular interaction. This approach is
recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) and is practised in
Singapore.
7.     TB is endemic in Singapore. TB infection is not uncommon in
Singaporeans, with the prevalence of TB infection as high as 29% among
those aged 70 to 79 years. Persons with TB infection do not experience
symptoms of TB and are not infectious.
8.     TB is curable and the spread of TB is preventable. Early
detection and prompt treatment of cases remain important in helping
those infected and rendering them non-infectious. For individuals
diagnosed with TB disease, adherence to treatment is important.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 JUNE 2022

