Increased Accessibility to Paxlovid for Eligible Covid-19 Patients



INCREASED ACCESSIBILITY TO PAXLOVID FOR ELIGIBLE COVID-19 PATIENTS


Published Date: 19 Apr 2022

1.     As part of the Ministry of Health’s (MOH) efforts to treat
COVID-19 in community settings, 16 more Public Health Preparedness
Clinics (PHPCs) will be progressively coming on board a pilot programme
to prescribe Paxlovid for COVID-19 patients who are at risk of severe
disease and who are assessed by their doctor to be clinically eligible
to receive the treatment. This is in addition to all polyclinics and the
20 PHPCs that are currently participating in the pilot programme.
Details of these 36 PHPCs can be found in the Annex.

2.     For now, MOH will fully cover the drug cost of Paxlovid use in
primary care settings, regardless of the patient’s vaccination status,
as it can reduce the likelihood of high-risk patients developing severe
COVID-19 and requiring hospital admission. The charging policy for
Paxlovid will be reviewed in due course.

3.     Early treatment with Paxlovid may be considered for COVID-19
patients who meet certain criteria. These include COVID-positive
patients who are aged 18 years and older, present within five days of
illness, and are at risk of developing severe disease, such as those who
have active cancer, serious heart conditions, or are on ongoing
immunosuppressive condition or treatment. As Paxlovid has potential
interactions with many other commonly used medications, the decision to
take Paxlovid has to be carefully considered by the primary care doctor,
and after discussion with the patients on the benefits and risks.

4.     MOH will continue to monitor the usage of Paxlovid and review the
patient outcomes. We will also monitor the demand closely and maintain a
healthy stock of Paxlovid.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

19 APRIL 2022
