Bivalent Moderna Spikevax Vaccine to Be Made Available to Healthcare
Workers



BIVALENT MODERNA SPIKEVAX VACCINE TO BE MADE AVAILABLE TO HEALTHCARE WORKERS


Published Date: 21 Oct 2022

From 25 October 2022, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will extend the
rollout of the bivalent Moderna/Spikevax COVID-19 vaccine to healthcare
workers in the public and private sector. This is to protect and support
our healthcare workers who are at higher risk of exposure to COVID-19.

2.     Eligible healthcare workers aged 18 and above, who have achieved
minimum protection (i.e. at least 3 doses of mRNA vaccine/Nuvaxovid or 4
doses of Sinovac-CoronaVac), and who had received their last vaccine
dose more than five months ago, are recommended to receive an additional
dose of the bivalent vaccine. They may walk in to any of our nine Joint
Testing and Vaccination Centres (JTVCs) offering the Moderna/Spikevax
vaccines to get themselves vaccinated. To locate the nearest JTVC
offering the bivalent vaccine and its operating hours, please refer to
www.gowhere.gov.sg/vaccine.
3.     All healthcare workers will need to produce a valid staff pass
carrying their name and the cluster/institution logo for identification
at the JTVC. Those without passes may produce a memo bearing the
company/organisationâ€™s letterhead or official stamp as proof. Please
refer to the Annex for details.

4.     Separate arrangements may be made by the respective healthcare
institutions to provide in-house vaccination to facilitate those who are
not able to visit the JTVCs due to work exigencies.

5.     This follows the initial rollout of the bivalent vaccine on 14
October to persons who have yet to achieve minimum protection, or those
aged 50 years and above who have received their last vaccine dose more
than five months ago. As of 20 October, over 28,000 individuals have
either booked an appointment for or have received the Moderna/Spikevax
vaccine.

6.     Vaccination remains our primary defence against severe illness
due to COVID-19, and we encourage all eligible persons to take the
bivalent vaccine when they are able to do so.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

21 OCTOBER 2022




