Singapore Contributes Usd1 Million to the Global Fund to Fight Aids,
Tuberculosis and Malaria



SINGAPORE CONTRIBUTES USD1 MILLION TO THE GLOBAL FUND TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS AND MALARIA


Published Date: 07 Dec 2022

         As part of our continued commitment to support multilateral
efforts in tackling key global health challenges, Singapore has pledged
a contribution of USD1 million to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria.

2.      Singapore recognises that in an interconnected and globalised
world, it is in all countries’ interest to work together to strengthen
global health. A concerted global effort is needed to build stronger
health systems, and increase countries’ capacities to prepare for,
prevent, detect and respond to new outbreaks.

3.      The Global Fund is an important pillar of the global health
efforts against HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. Against the backdrop of
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Global Fund’s objectives have evolved to
contribute more to global efforts in pandemic prevention, preparedness
and response.

4.      Throughout COVID-19, many of Global Fund’s existing investments
and efforts were rapidly mobilised to respond to the new pandemic
threat, underscoring the importance of establishing and maintaining
resilient in-country health systems. Many low- and middle-income
countries were able to make use of the resources built to fight HIV,
tuberculosis and malaria – such as laboratories, supply chains, data
systems, diagnostics tools, health workers and community systems – as
the foundation of their response to COVID-19.

5.      Singapore will continue to work with the Global Fund and other
international actors to address key gaps in the global health
architecture and help the world build more resilient health systems
