MOH Statement In Response to Xbb Falsehoods



MOH STATEMENT IN RESPONSE TO XBB FALSEHOODS


Published Date: 11 Oct 2022

There have been rumours circulating via WhatsApp that Singapore is
having a rapid and large increase in cases with severe illness and
deaths due to the circulating XBB strain. This is not true. We are
initiating POFMA action against such falsehoods.
While there is an increase in local cases driven by XBB, including the
post-weekend spike this Tuesday, the number of severe cases has remained
relatively low. This is very likely due to the resilience built up
through vaccination and previous waves of infection. We are monitoring
the trajectory closely.
More importantly, there is also no evidence of XBB causing more severe
illness. So far, the large majority of patients continue to report mild
symptoms such as sore throat or slight fever, especially if they have
been vaccinated.
As of 11 October 2022, we have 11 ICU cases and 50 who need oxygen
supplementation, just slightly higher than the level observed in the
past few months. In comparison, at the peaks of the previous Delta and
Omicron waves, these numbers were 171 (ICU) and 308 (oxygen
supplementation), and 54 (ICU) and 242 (oxygen supplementation)
respectively.
The increase in hospitalised cases is in line with the overall increase
in cases. There are currently 490 hospitalised cases compared to 1,600
at the peak of the Delta wave and about 800 at the peak of the Omicron
wave.
However, our hospitalsâ€™ Emergency Departments (ED) continue to be very
busy, we encourage members of the public not to rush to the ED unless
they are experiencing an emergency medical condition. Patients who walk
into EDs with non-emergency conditions, including children, will be
diverted to other urgent care clinics or primary care clinics for
further assessment, so as to prioritise ED resources for patients who
need the medical care.
