Maintaining Vigilance and Preparedness



MAINTAINING VIGILANCE AND PREPAREDNESS


Published Date: 04 Nov 2022

     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) has been closely monitoring the
recent resurgence of cases driven by the Omicron XBB variant (a
recombinant strain of BA.2.75 and BA.2.10 sub-lineages). We note that
the XBB wave is subsiding.
2.     There are now multiple subvariants circulating globally, and new
variants may also form. With the recovery in international travel, a new
highly transmissible variant can enter and spread in Singapore without
much advance warning. As such, we cannot be complacent. It is now even
more important that we shore up our defences ahead of any future
evolution of the COVID-19 virus, and prepare in advance to respond
quickly should the need arise.
Vaccination as First Line of Defence

3.     We have three lines of defence. Our first key line of defence is
to keep our vaccinations against COVID-19 up to date. The protection
conferred by our high vaccination rate has thus far enabled us to keep
the number of severe cases and deaths much lower than in many other
countries. As new variants of COVID-19 continue to emerge, we urge those
who are eligible to take the bivalent vaccine as an additional vaccine
dose, to ensure they continue to have good protection against COVID-19.
4.     Individuals aged 50 years and above and healthcare workers were
prioritised to receive an additional dose of bivalent vaccine as they
are at higher risk of severe illness and exposure to COVID-19
respectively. There has been good uptake of the Moderna/Spikevax
bivalent Original/Omicron BA.1 vaccine since its roll-out. As of 2
November 2022, over 65,000 individuals have received the bivalent
vaccine dose, or have booked an appointment.
Extension of Bivalent Booster to Younger Age Groups

5.     From 7 November 2022, we will progressively invite eligible
individuals aged 18 to 49 years to receive an additional dose of the
bivalent vaccine. In particular, those who have yet to complete their
minimum protection series should do so as soon as possible. Those who
are eligible will receive an SMS with a personalised booking link to
make an appointment at one of our Joint Testing and Vaccination Centres
(JTVCs). We will start by inviting individuals in the 40 to 49 age group
in the initial phase, before gradually moving on to the lower age
groups. We seek your patience and understanding that the SMS may take a
couple of weeks to reach everyone. To avoid overcrowding the JTVCs, we
will only facilitate walk-ins for persons aged 50 years and above and
healthcare workers. To locate the nearest JTVC and their operating
hours, please visit https://www.gowhere.gov.sg/vaccine.
6.     The Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty bivalent Original-Omicron BA.4/5
vaccine has recently been approved locally for use in individuals aged
12 years and above. Supplies are expected to arrive towards the end of
the year and more details will be shared later. Individuals, including
children, are encouraged to receive COVID-19 vaccines recommended for
them as soon as they are eligible to do so to ensure timely protection.
They are encouraged not to delay vaccination to wait for specific
vaccines that may become available only in the future.
Up-to-Date Vaccination

7.     With the latest extension, all adults aged 18 years and above
should ensure that they keep up to date with their COVID-19 vaccination.
This means that after achieving minimum protection, they should receive
an additional booster dose between five months to one year from their
last dose. The updated bivalent vaccine is recommended for this.
Individuals will be considered up to date with their COVID-19
vaccination if they have received at least the minimum protection and
their last vaccine dose was received within the past one year. The
vaccination recommendations to meet the up-to-date definition are
summarised in Annex A.
Sinovac-CoronaVac Allowed for Booster Vaccination

8.     Since 7 October 2022, persons aged 18 years and above can take
the Sinovac-CoronaVac as a booster, without the need for proof of
medical ineligibility to mRNA or Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccines. This is to
encourage those who have been vaccinated with three doses of
Sinovac-CoronaVac to achieve a minimum level of protection against
COVID-19 with the fourth dose, although the recommendation is still for
these individuals to receive the updated Bivalent Moderna/Spikevax,
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty or Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccines for better
protection. We strongly urge individuals who have received three doses
of Sinovac-CoronaVac to receive their fourth vaccine dose if they have
not yet done so.
Regular Self-Testing for Early Detection

9.     Our second key line of defence is regular self-testing to enable
early detection and isolation, particularly when one is unwell, coming
back from overseas travel, or before visiting/ interacting with
vulnerable groups such as the elderly.
10.     As reinfections become more common, those who experience
symptoms like cough, sore throat, runny nose or fever, after 28 days
from their previous infection, should also test themselves for COVID-19.
Those who test positive should follow Protocol 1-2-3. Higher risk
individuals (e.g. the elderly or immunocompromised) or those with severe
symptoms should seek medical attention. Low-risk individuals with mild
symptoms (e.g. fever, cough, sore throat) should continue to monitor
themselves closely for signs and symptoms of concern while recovering at
home. If signs and symptoms worsen, they should also see their family
doctor. Members of public are encouraged to only go to the Emergency
Department (ED) for emergency conditions. Those who test negative but
feel unwell should also reduce social interactions because their illness
may be due to other respiratory viruses such as influenza.
11.     To encourage Singaporeans to self-test, the MTF will conduct a
fourth round of Antigen Rapid Test (ART) kit distribution. Each
household will receive 12 ART kits, with deliveries starting from 21
November 2022. As it is the peak holiday season and there is a high
volume of ART kits being delivered, we seek the publicâ€™s understanding
that some households may receive kits later than others. In the
meantime, ART kits are available for purchase from various retailers
island-wide.
12.     The Government will continue to support lower income households
who may require more ART kits beyond what the Ministry of Health (MOH)
is providing. Beneficiaries of the Social Service Offices and Family
Service Centres may continue to request additional ART kits at these
locations. MOH will also be working with the Ministry of Education and
Early Childhood Development Agency to provide these additional ART kits
to students from lower-income households. More information on the
provision of these ART kits would be separately shared with students and
parents at a later date.
Exercising Personal Responsibility To Protect Our Community

13.     Our third key line of defence is to practise personal and social
responsibility. Living with COVID-19 means we must become used to a
resurgence of cases due to a new variant from time to time. We must take
appropriate measures to keep ourselves and our loved ones safe, such as
by keeping our vaccinations up to date, testing when necessary and
maintaining personal hygiene.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

4 NOVEMBER 2022

_________________________________________________________


