Minister for Health Mr Ong Ye Kung to Attend the 15th Asean Health
Ministers Meeting and Related Meetings In Bali, Indonesia



MINISTER FOR HEALTH MR ONG YE KUNG TO ATTEND THE 15TH ASEAN HEALTH MINISTERS MEETING AND RELATED MEETINGS IN BALI, INDONESIA


Published Date: 13 May 2022

        Mr Ong Ye Kung, Minister for Health, will attend the 15th ASEAN
Health Ministers Meeting and Related Meetings (9th ASEAN Plus Three
Health Ministers Meeting, 8th ASEAN-China Health Ministers Meeting, 1st
ASEAN-Republic of Korea Health Ministers Meeting, and the ASEAN-US
Health Ministerial Meeting) in Bali, Indonesia from 14 to 15 May 2022.



2.        The ASEAN Health Ministers Meeting and Related Meetings are
held biennially to set the direction for regional health cooperation and
chart the future course of the ASEAN health sector. Attendees include
Health Ministers and senior officials from ASEAN and Plus Three
countries (China, Japan and the Republic of Korea), the ASEAN
Secretary-General, and the World Health Organization’s Regional
Directors or their representatives. The theme for this year’s meetings
is Advancing the Achievement of ASEAN Health Development.



3.        The Meeting will discuss health issues including efforts and
collaborations in building regional health system resilience and
accelerating COVID-19 recovery; optimising mobilisation of essential
health resources in responding to health crises; promoting the One
Health approach¹ to prepare and respond to pandemics; achieving
sustainable universal health coverage and health security; and future
collaborations towards strengthening health systems for public health
emergencies.



4.        Mr Ong will also meet with his counterparts during the visit.
He will be accompanied by senior officials from the Ministry of Health.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 MAY 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The One Health approach is a strategy for expanding cross-sectoral
and interdisciplinary collaborations and communication between the human
health, animal health and environmental health sectors for the purpose
of protecting public health.
