Extension of Operating Hours At Vaccination Centres and Cessation of
Novavax/nuvaxovid Vaccination At Polyclinics



EXTENSION OF OPERATING HOURS AT VACCINATION CENTRES AND CESSATION OF NOVAVAX/NUVAXOVID VACCINATION AT POLYCLINICS


Published Date: 22 Dec 2022

     The operating hours at the Joint Testing and Vaccination Centres
(JTVCs) and Childrenâ€™s Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on Saturdays will be
extended to 7pm until end-February 2023.



2.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) had earlier announced the extension
of operating hours at the JTVCs and CVCs from 9am-1pm to 9am-7pm on
Saturdays until end-December 2022. As we continue to observe a strong
demand for vaccination amongst the population, the extended operating
hours for Saturdays at the JTVCs and CVCs will continue until
end-February 2023.



3.     Persons aged 50 and above can walk into a JTVC to receive their
vaccinations without appointments. They are reminded that the less
crowded hours are from Mondays to Thursdays before 6.30pm, and on
Saturdays after 2pm. For a smoother experience, walk-ins should be
avoided during peak periods of Friday (full day) and Saturday morning.
Persons aged 12 to 49 years will be invited via SMS when they become
eligible to receive the vaccination, and should use the personalised
booking link in the SMS to book an appointment.



4.     We encourage everyone to take advantage of the extended operating
hours at the vaccination sites to receive their vaccinations as soon as
they are eligible. Please refer to Annex A for the operating hours of
the JTVCs and CVCs. Individuals may visit https://gowhere.gov.sg/vaccine
to locate the nearest vaccination location.



NOVAVAX/NUVAXOVID VACCINE AVAILABLE ONLY AT SELECTED PHPCS



5.     Currently the Novavax/Nuvaxovid COVID-19 vaccine is available at
selected Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) and Jurong and
Yishun Polyclinics. From 25 December 2022, the Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccine
will only be available at selected PHPCs. The last day for persons to
receive the vaccine at Jurong and Yishun Polyclinics is 24 December
2022.



6.     The existing PHPCs that are offering the Novavax/Nuvaxovid
vaccine will continue to do so. Please refer to Annex B for the list of
PHPCs offering the Novavax/Nuvaxovid vaccine. Eligible individuals who
wish to receive the vaccine may make an appointment at these
participating PHPCs.



7.     From 3 January 2023, Jurong Polyclinic will offer the bivalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine for individuals aged 12 and above,
while Yishun Polyclinic will offer the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for
children aged 6 months to 4 years old.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

22 DECEMBER 2022




