Higher Medishield Life Claim Limit for Cancer Drug Services



HIGHER MEDISHIELD LIFE CLAIM LIMIT FOR CANCER DRUG SERVICES


Published Date: 04 Mar 2023

     The Ministry of Health (MOH) will increase the MediShield Life
claim limit for cancer drug services from $1,200 per calendar year to
$3,600 per calendar year from 1 April 2023.



2.     To ensure the affordability of cancer drug treatments and
sustainability of insurance premiums in the long term, MOH regularly
reviews the financing schemes for cancer drug treatments. Since 1
September 2022, only treatments that are listed on the Cancer Drug List
are covered under MediShield Life and MediSave. Integrated Shield Plan
coverage will also be adjusted to cover only treatments on the Cancer
Drug List from 1 April 2023, upon policy purchase or renewal.



3.     As part of the cancer drug financing changes, a separate claim
limit for outpatient cancer drug services was introduced on 1 September
2022 to cover costs of services that might be incurred over the course
of one’s cancer drug treatment. These include scans, blood tests, doctor
consultations and supportive care drugs. The MediShield Life and
MediSave limit for these services were set at $1,200 and $600 per
calendar year respectively.



4.     Since its implementation, we have received feedback that the
MediShield Life claim limit for cancer drug services may not be adequate
for some patients who require more frequent tests to monitor disease
progression or who require more supportive care drugs to manage their
side effects.



5.     After reviewing the latest available claims data, MOH will
increase the MediShield Life claim limit for cancer drug services to
$3,600 per calendar year from 1 April 2023. There is no change to the
MediSave withdrawal limit of $600 per calendar year. Patients who made
cancer drug services claims in 2023 will be able to make additional
MediShield Life claims from 1 April 2023, up to the new limit.



6.     MOH will continue to review our healthcare financing schemes to
ensure that they remain adequate to address Singaporeans’ needs, while
ensuring the long-term sustainability of healthcare costs. Nobody will
be denied appropriate healthcare due to an inability to pay.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

4 MARCH 2023






