Tender Closing for Private Assisted Living Development Site At Parry
Avenue



TENDER CLOSING FOR PRIVATE ASSISTED LIVING DEVELOPMENT SITE AT PARRY AVENUE


Published Date: 21 Mar 2023

         The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Urban Redevelopment
Authority closed the tender for the site at Parry Avenue for a private
assisted living development today.

2       A total of 4 tender submissions have been received. Please see
ANNEX A for the particulars of the tenderers.

CONCEPT AND PRICE REVENUE TENDER

3      The site was launched for sale via a Concept and Price Revenue
tender on 29 September 2022. As private assisted living is a new
housing-cum-care model that MOH and URA are co-creating with industry
players, we expect to receive a range of proposals for innovative
assisted living models. This tender approach was adopted to ensure that
the selected concept proposal is aligned with our vision for a private
assisted living development.

4        Under this approach, tenderers are required to submit their
concept proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals
will first be evaluated by a Concept Evaluation Committee (CEC), chaired
by MOH, based on criteria such as suitability and innovativeness of the
proposed model of care, as well as quality of the proposed care
programmes and services.

5         Only concept proposals that are shortlisted will proceed to
the second stage of evaluation, which will be based only on price. The
site will then be awarded to the shortlisted tenderer with the highest
bid price.

6        This is not an announcement of tender award. A decision on the
award of the tender will be announced at a later date after the tenders
have been evaluated.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
21 MARCH 2023
